Artist: Eminem, Alternate Names: Marshall B. Mathers III, Marshall Mathers III, Marshall Bruce Mathers III, Marshall Mathers, Slim Shady
Artist Description: Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972)—otherwise known as Eminem—is a legendary hip-hop icon who started as an underground battle rapper in Detroit, Michigan. He developed a career full of controversy, wild swings, and some of the most noteworthy bars in the history of the genre.

Eminem has broken countless barriers, shifting and impacting the culture in several ways. In June 2017, “Stan” was added to the Oxford Dictionary, and in 2019, to the Merriam-Webster dictionary. He was the first rapper to win the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album for three consecutive albums. “Rap God” set the Guinness World Record for most words in a song. He was also the first rapper to win an Oscar. His albums The Marshall Mathers LP and The Eminem Show became certified Diamond by the RIAA in 2011, making him one of the few artists to have more than one Diamond album. This has helped him become the highest-selling hip-hop artist of all time. In January 2020, with his 11th studio album Music to Be Murdered By debuting at #1 on the Billboard 200, Eminem became the first artist in history to have 10 consecutive #1 debuts.

Marshall’s affinity for recording music began as early as 1988 when at 16-years old he joined forces with DJ Butter Fingers to form the group New Jacks. Their tracks together showcased Marshall’s (known then as MC Double M) quick-paced storytelling over hip-hop samples cut by DJ Butter.

Only a year later, Em and Butter disbanded New Jacks to form Bassmint Productions, a larger group which included the likes of rapper Chaos Kid as well as producer and brother of Butter, Manix. Deshaun “Proof” Holtman (known then as Maximum) joined in 1990 upon meeting the group at Centerline high school in Detroit.

Bassmint then evolved to Soul Intent recording their EP Still In The Bassmint as well as pressing 300 cassette-singles of “F#@!in' Backstabber” and “Biterphobia” in 1995, soon after signing to the Bass Brothers label Web Entertainment.

Em went on to record and release his first solo EP in November of 1996 aged 24, titled Infinite. Considered a commercial flop, a total of 500 vinyls were pressed.

A year later is when Eminem created the infamous Slim Shady persona, teaming up with the Bass Brothers again to release The Slim Shady EP. Still, Eminem was struggling to make a living, prompting him to attend the Rap Olympics in December of 1997. Losing out to rapper Otherwize, the defeated Eminem passed out a tape to A&R’s Evan “Kidd” Boggart and Dean Geistlinger.

The tape consisted of 4 of the best cuts from The SSEP, compiled by Mark Bass and Eminem himself. It fell into the hands of Jimmy Iovine, head of Interscope Records. Only a few months later, in February of 1998, legendary producer Dr. Dre got in contact with Mark Bass, inviting the crew to his studio the next weekend.

Produced and co-signed by Dr. Dre, Em went on an unprecedented run of success, releasing three well-reviewed multi-platinum albums:

Only taking three months, The Slim Shady LP was a revised and polished version of the EP, and the first project to be put out with Dre, dropped in Feb 1999. The lead single “My Name Is” helped catapult his career into the limelight.

From 1999-2000, Em had brief involvements with the New Jersey collective Outsidaz, who were closely linked to D12.

The Marshall Mathers LP, released in May 2000, incorporates more violence than ever before with the addition of bigger features such as Snoop Dogg and Dido.

His 4th studio album released in May of 2002, titled The Eminem Show, features some of his largest songs to date including “‘Till I Collapse” and “Without Me”.

Eminem’s success reached the big screens when he starred in the 2002 film 8 Mile. Accompanied with a soundtrack executively produced by himself, the movie closely followed Eminem’s path to glory.

However, things began to come crashing down in 2004, as his fifth studio album Encore was leaked online, forcing him to release days earlier than expected with rushed additions. The critique received coupled with his growing drug addiction lead Eminem to take a a 4 year hiatus, during which his best friend Proof was fatally shot.

Relapse in May 2009 saw the return of the Slim Shady persona. This aptly named project received mixed reviews due to the variety of unfamiliar accents throughout, yet still reached multi-platinum sales.

In 2010, Eminem had planned to release Relapse 2, but opted for Recovery, a more introspective sound which led Em to switch his style up from his previously shock-oriented lyrics to more emotional subject matters. This was a well-received and Grammy-award-winning album, and he employed a very similar approach to 2013’s The Marshall Mathers LP 2, the well-received sequel to Em’s magnum opus.

Eminem invested himself farther than ever into this new emotional style with 2017’s  Revival, which included lyrics about his place in hip-hop, as well as modern issues including President Donald Trump. Despite the serious direction, many were turned off to the album due to its heavy Rock-sampling, with many considering it one of, if not his weakest project.

Following the controversy surrounding Revival and criticism of his modern style, Eminem surprise-released  Kamikaze on August 31, 2018, responding to critics of Revival and his career overall. The album was much more well-received than his previous effort and went on to be the highest-selling rap album of 2018.

Once again, by surprise, Eminem released Music to Be Murdered By on January 17, 2020—Eminem’s first full-length project for the new decade. The album, similar to 2018’s Kamikaze, includes fast-paced rapping and heavy rhyming. The album’s cover is a reference to Sir Alfred Hitchcock, and his 1958 record of the same name, Music to Be Murdered By. In December 2020, Em released Music to Be Murdered By: Side B. This deluxe edition includes 16 new tracks that were not on the original tracklist.

On the 5th of August 2022 Eminem released Curtain Call 2 which is a second greatest hits compilation album including hits from Relapse to Music To Be Murdered By.

On the 31st of May 2024, Eminem released a previously teased single ‘'Houdini’' and with it announced the release of his new album The Death of Slim Shady (Coup de Grâce) for summer 2024. The album was then released on the 12th of July 2024.

Em is one half of Bad Meets Evil with Royce Da 5'9", and was a part of D12 with Mr. Porter, Kuniva, Swifty McVay, and Bizarre, and formerly with Proof, Eye-Kyu, Bugz & Fuzz Scoota.

As of February 8, 2018, Eminem’s “Lose Yourself” is officially certified diamond in the United States, meaning the song has sold over 10 million copies. It’s Eminem’s third diamond single after “Not Afraid” and “Love the Way You Lie." Eminem is now the first rapper and only the second artist to ever achieve this accolade.

In addition to 8 Mile, Eminem co-produced the July 2015 film Southpaw with his track “Phenomenal” as well as Bodied in November 2018 with the unreleased track “Freak.”

Songs:

Title: Rap God
Release Date: October 14, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-rap-god-lyrics
Song Description: Rap God is Eminems braggadocious ode to himself and his career. Over its six-minute run-time, he references comic books, throws back to his old songs, and raps crazily fast.

In a Q&A with Rolling Stone, Em was asked whether he felt like a Rap God or an underdog, to which he responded:

I think everything switches back and forth from hour to hour, day by day with me. That whole Rap God record pretty much from top to bottom is tongue in cheek. So I mean, do I want to feel like that? Maybe sometimes. Again, it goes back to everybody who competitively raps and does this for just purely for the sport of it wants to be the best. Again, thats why Kendricks verse worked so well because he only said what every rappers already thinking, If you dont want to be the best, then why are you rapping?

This song landed Eminem a spot in The Guinness Book of World Records for the most words in a hit single:

The single Rap God from Eminem packed a mouth-filling 1,560 words into its 6 min 4 sec runtime.

However, in 2015, Harry Shotta broke Eminems world record of most words in a track. Eminems Rap God has 1560 words, while Harry Shottas Animal has 1771.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
"Look, I was gonna go easy on you not to hurt your feelings"
"But I'm only going to get this one chance" (Six minutes—, six minutes—)
"Something's wrong, I can feel it" (Six minutes, Slim Shady, you're on!)
"Just a feeling I've got, like something's about to happen, but I don't know what. 
If that means what I think it means, we're in trouble, big trouble; 
And if he is as bananas as you say, I'm not taking any chances"
"You are just what the doc ordered"

[Chorus]
I'm beginnin' to feel like a Rap God, Rap God
All my people from the front to the back nod, back nod
Now, who thinks their arms are long enough to slap box, slap box?
They said I rap like a robot, so call me Rap-bot
[Verse 1]
But for me to rap like a computer it must be in my genes
I got a laptop in my back pocket
My pen'll go off when I half-cock it
Got a fat knot from that rap profit
Made a livin' and a killin' off it
Ever since Bill Clinton was still in office
With Monica Lewinsky feelin' on his nutsack
I'm an MC still as honest
But as rude and as indecent as all hell
Syllables, skill-a-holic (Kill 'em all with)
This flippity dippity-hippity hip-hop
You don't really wanna get into a pissin' match
With this rappity brat, packin' a MAC in the back of the Ac'
Backpack rap crap, yap-yap, yackety-yack
And at the exact same time, I attempt these lyrical acrobat stunts while I'm practicin' that
I'll still be able to break a motherfuckin' table
Over the back of a couple of faggots and crack it in half
Only realized it was ironic, I was signed to Aftermath after the fact
How could I not blow? All I do is drop F-bombs
Feel my wrath of attack
Rappers are havin' a rough time period, here's a maxi pad
It's actually disastrously bad for the wack
While I'm masterfully constructing this masterpièce
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
'Cause I'm beginnin' to feel like a Rap God, Rap God
All my people from the front to the back nod, back nod
Now, who thinks their arms are long enough to slap box, slap box?
Let me show you maintainin' this shit ain't that hard, that hard
Everybody want the key and the secret to rap immortality like Ι have got

[Verse 2]
Well, to be truthful the blueprint's
Simply rage and youthful exuberance
Everybody loves to root for a nuisance
Hit the Earth like an asteroid
Did nothing but shoot for the Moon since (Pew!)
MCs get taken to school with this music
'Cause I use it as a vehicle to "bus the rhyme"
Now I lead a new school full of students
Me? I'm a product of Rakim
Lakim Shabazz, 2Pac, N.W.A, Cube, hey Doc, Ren
Yella, Eazy, thank you, they got Slim
Inspired enough to one day grow up, blow up and be in a position
To meet Run–D.M.C., and induct them
Into the motherfuckin' Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
Even though I'll walk in the church and burst in a ball of flames
Only Hall of Fame I'll be inducted in is the alcohol of fame
On the wall of shame
You fags think it's all a game, 'til I walk a flock of flames
Off a plank and, tell me what in the fuck are you thinkin'?
Little gay-lookin' boy
So gay I can barely say it with a straight face, lookin' boy (Ha-ha!)
You're witnessin' a mass-occur
Like you're watching a church gathering take place, lookin' boy
"Oy vey, that boy's gay!"—that's all they say, lookin' boy
You get a thumbs up, pat on the back
And a "way to go" from your label every day, lookin' boy
Hey, lookin' boy! What you say, lookin' boy?
I get a "hell yeah" from Dre, lookin' boy
I'ma work for everything I have, never asked nobody for shit
Get outta my face, lookin' boy!
Basically, boy, you're never gonna be capable
Of keepin' up with the same pace, lookin' boy, 'cause—
[Chorus]
I'm beginnin' to feel like a Rap God, Rap God
All my people from the front to the back nod, back nod
The way I'm racin' around the track, call me NASCAR, NASCAR
Dale Earnhardt of the trailer park, the White Trash God
Kneel before General Zod
This planet's Krypton—no, Asgard, Asgard

[Verse 3]
So you'll be Thor and I'll be Odin
You rodent, I'm omnipotent
Let off, then I'm reloadin'
Immediately with these bombs I'm totin'
And I should not be woken
I'm the walkin' dead, but I'm just a talkin' head, a zombie floatin'
But I got your mom deep-throatin'
I'm out my Ramen Noodle
We have nothin' in common, poodle
I'm a Doberman, pinch yourself in the arm and pay homage, pupil
It's me, my honesty's brutal
But it's honestly futile if I don't utilize what I do though
For good at least once in a while
So I wanna make sure somewhere in this chicken scratch I scribble and doodle enough rhymes
To maybe try to help get some people through tough times
But I gotta keep a few punchlines
Just in case 'cause even you unsigned
Rappers are hungry lookin' at me like it's lunchtime
I know there was a time where once I
Was king of the underground
But I still rap like I'm on my Pharoahe Monch grind
So I crunch rhymes, but sometimes when you combine
Appeal with the skin color of mine
You get too big and here they come tryin'
To censor you like that one line
I said on "I'm Back" from The Mathers LP 1 when I
Tried to say I'll take seven kids from Columbine
Put 'em all in a line, add an AK-47, a revolver and a 9
See if I get away with it now that I ain't as big as I was, but I'm
Morphin' into an immortal, comin' through the portal
You're stuck in a time warp from 2004 though
And I don't know what the fuck that you rhyme for
You're pointless as Rapunzel with fuckin' cornrows
You write normal? Fuck being normal!
And I just bought a new raygun from the future
Just to come and shoot ya, like when Fabolous made Ray J mad
'Cause Fab said he looked like a fag at Mayweather's pad
Singin' to a man while he played piano
Man, oh man, that was a 24/7 special on the cable channel
So Ray J went straight to the radio station
The very next day, "Hey Fab, I'ma kill you!"
Lyrics comin' at you at supersonic speed (J.J. Fad)
Uh, summa-lumma, dooma-lumma, you assumin' I'm a human
What I gotta do to get it through to you? I'm superhuman
Innovative and I'm made of rubber so that anything you say is ricochetin' off of me and it'll glue to you and
I'm devastating, more than ever demonstrating
How to give a motherfuckin' audience a feeling like it's levitating
Never fading, and I know the haters are forever waiting
For the day that they can say I fell off, they'll be celebrating
'Cause I know the way to get 'em motivated
I make elevating music, you make elevator music
"Oh, he's too mainstream."
Well, that's what they do when they get jealous, they confuse it
"It's not hip-hop, it's pop,"—'cause I found a hella way to fuse it
With rock, shock rap with Doc
Throw on "Lose Yourself" and make 'em lose it
"I don't know how to make songs like that
I don't know what words to use."
Let me know when it occurs to you
While I'm rippin' any one of these verses that versus you
It's curtains, I'm inadvertently hurtin' you
How many verses I gotta murder to
Prove that if you were half as nice, your songs you could sacrifice virgins too?!
Ugh, school flunky, pill junkie
But look at the accolades these skills brung me
Full of myself, but still hungry
I bully myself 'cause I make me do what I put my mind to
And I'm a million leagues above you
Ill when I speak in tongues, but it's still tongue-in-cheek, fuck you
I'm drunk, so, Satan, take the fucking wheel
I'ma sleep in the front seat
Bumpin' Heavy D and the Boyz, still "Chunky but Funky"
But in my head there's something I can feel tugging and struggling
Angels fight with devils and here's what they want from me
They're askin' me to eliminate some of the women hate
But if you take into consideration the bitter hatred
I have, then you may be a little patient
And more sympathetic to the situation
And understand the discrimination
But fuck it, life's handin' you lemons? Make lemonade then!
But if I can't batter the women
How the fuck am I supposed to bake 'em a cake then?
Don't mistake him for Satan
It's a fatal mistake if you think I need to be overseas and take a vacation
To trip a broad, and make her fall on her face and
Don't be a retard—be a king? Think not
Why be a king when you can be a god?6.8KEmbed

Title: Lose Yourself
Release Date: October 28, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-lose-yourself-lyrics
Song Description: Lose Yourself is the theme song from Eminems semi-biographical 2002 movie 8 Mile. Eminem is narrating the life of the films protagonist, Jimmy, up until the third verse, where Jimmy and Eminems journey converge.

Engineer Steven King told Rolling Stone in 2003 that Eminem laid down all three verses in one take, which Eminem has since shed doubt on.

Eminem stated in his 2008 autobiography, The Way I Am, that he wrote in-between shooting scenes [for 8 Mile] and taking care of [his] kids (pg 108-109.) Scans of the scrawled lyrics on A4 writing pad pages were also featured in the autobiography (pg 217-218.)

In 2014, the demo version appeared on Shady Records' SHADY XV compilation album, which featured the same beat and tone but almost entirely different lyrics.

Commercially, Lose Yourself was hugely successful and reached #1 in 20 countries, including the US. It marked Eminems first US #1, and held the top position for 12 weeks, becoming the third-longest chart-topper from a movie soundtrack (behind I Will Always Love You and End Of The Road). As of 2022, it is 13x Multi-Platinum in the US.

The song was lauded critically, too. It won two Grammys (Best Male Rap Solo Performance & Best Rap Song) and became the first rap song to win the Oscar for Best Original Song. Eminem didnt attend the ceremony as he didnt think hed win, meaning he didnt perform it, which is atypical for winners of the category. This was remedied when he performed the song at the 2020 Oscars.

The song has also had a huge cultural impact. Apple used the song for two commercials in the mid-00s to promote iTunes and the iPod, with Eminem featuring in the latter video. Chrysler used the instrumental and Eminem for their 2011 Born of Fire Super Bowl commercial. In 2021, Eminem opened up a restaurant in Detroit called Moms Spaghetti, which is a lyric thats been memed extensively (even being given its own fan-made song.)
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Look, if you had one shot or one opportunity
To seize everything you ever wanted in one moment
Would you capture it or just let it slip?
Yo

[Verse 1]
His palms are sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy
There's vomit on his sweater already, mom's spaghetti
He's nervous, but on the surface, he looks calm and ready
To drop bombs, but he keeps on forgetting
What he wrote down, the whole crowd goes so loud
He opens his mouth, but the words won't come out
He's chokin', how? Everybody's jokin' now
The clock's run out, time's up, over, blaow
Snap back to reality, ope, there goes gravity
Ope, there goes Rabbit, he choked, he's so mad
But he won't give up that easy, no, he won't have it
He knows his whole back's to these ropes, it don't matter
He's dope, he knows that, but he's broke, he's so stagnant
He knows when he goes back to this mobile home, that's when it's
Back to the lab again, yo, this old rhapsody
Better go capture this moment and hope it don't pass him

[Chorus]
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
His soul's escaping through this hole that is gaping
This world is mine for the taking, make me king
As we move toward a new world order
A normal life is boring, but superstardom's
Close to post-mortem, it only grows harder
Homie grows hotter, he blows, it's all over
These hoes is all on him, coast-to-coast shows
He's known as the Globetrotter, lonely roads
God only knows he's grown farther from home, he's no father
He goes home and barely knows his own daughter
But hold your nose 'cause here goes the cold water
These hoes don't want him no mo', he's cold product
They moved on to the next schmoe who flows
He nose-dove and sold nada, and so the soap opera
Is told, it unfolds, I suppose it's old, partner
But the beat goes on, da-da-dom, da-dom, dah-dah-dah-dah

[Chorus]
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better
[Verse 3]
No more games, I'ma change what you call rage
Tear this motherfuckin' roof off like two dogs caged
I was playin' in the beginning, the mood all changed
I've been chewed up and spit out and booed off stage
But I kept rhymin' and stepped right in the next cypher
Best believe somebody's payin' the Pied Piper
All the pain inside amplified by the
Fact that I can't get by with my nine-to-
Five and I can't provide the right type of life for my family
'Cause, man, these goddamn food stamps don't buy diapers
And there's no movie, there's no Mekhi Phifer, this is my life
And these times are so hard, and it's gettin' even harder
Tryna feed and water my seed, plus teeter-totter
Caught up between bein' a father and a prima donna
Baby-mama drama, screamin' on her, too much for me to wanna
Stay in one spot, another day of monotony's gotten me
To the point I'm like a snail, I've got
To formulate a plot or end up in jail or shot
Success is my only motherfuckin' option, failure's not
Mom, I love you, but this trailer's got
To go, I cannot grow old in Salem's Lot
So here I go, it's my shot; feet, fail me not
This may be the only opportunity that I got

[Chorus]
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better lose yourself in the music
The moment, you own it, you better never let it go (Go)
You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow
This opportunity comes once in a lifetime, yo
You better
[Outro]
You can do anything you set your mind to, man1.6KEmbed

Title: Without Me
Release Date: May 14, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-without-me-lyrics
Song Description: The Eminem Shows lead single shows Eminems realization of his importance to the rap game and his claim that it wouldnt be the same without him.

Without Me is recognized to be one of the densest raps in history, although often ignored as such because it is poppy and a lead single.

The song charted as a top 5 hit in 20 countries, reaching number one in thirteen of themincluding Australia, Ireland, Germany, and Switzerlandand was later featured on the soundtrack album for the 2016 film Suicide Squad.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Obie Trice & Eminem]
Obie Trice, real name, no gimmicks
Ra—
Two trailer-park girls go round the outside
Round the outside, round the outside
Two trailer-park girls go round the outside
Round the outside, round the outside
Woo (Ooh, ooh)

[Refrain: Eminem]
Guess who's back, back again?
Shady's back, tell a friend
Guess who's back, guess who's back
Guess who's back, guess who's back
Guess who's back, guess who's back
Guess who's back
(Na-na-na, na, na, na, na, na, na)
(Na-na-na, na, na, na, na)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I've created a monster
'Cause nobody wants to see Marshall no more, they want Shady, I'm chopped liver
Well, if you want Shady, this is what I'll give ya
A little bit of weed mixed with some hard liquor
Some vodka that'll jump-start my heart quicker
Than a shock when I get shocked at the hospital
By the doctor when I'm not cooperating
When I'm rockin' the table while he's operating (Hey)
You waited this long, now stop debating
'Cause I'm back, I'm on the rag and ovulating
I know that you got a job, Ms. Cheney
But your husband's heart problem's complicating
So the FCC won't let me be
Or let me be me, so let me see
They tried to shut me down on MTV
But it feels so empty without me
So come on and dip, bum on your lips
Fuck that, cum on your lips and some on your tits
And get ready, 'cause this shit's about to get heavy
I just settled all my lawsuits (Fuck you, Debbie)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
Now, this looks like a job for me
So everybody, just follow me
'Cause we need a little controversy
'Cause it feels so empty without me
I said this looks like a job for me
So everybody, just follow me
'Cause we need a little controversy
'Cause it feels so empty without me

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Little hellions, kids feeling rebellious
Embarrassed, their parents still listen to Elvis
They start feelin' like prisoners, helpless
'Til someone comes along on a mission and yells, "Bitch"
A visionary, vision is scary
Could start a revolution, pollutin' the airwaves
A rebel, so just let me revel and bask
In the fact that I got everyone kissin' my ass
And it's a disaster, such a catastrophe
For you to see so damn much of my ass, you asked for me?
Well, I'm back, da-na-na-na, na-na-na-na-na-na
Fix your bent antenna, tune it in, and then I'm gonna
Enter in and up under your skin like a splinter
The center of attention, back for the winter
I'm interesting, the best thing since wrestling
Infesting in your kid's ears and nesting
Testing, "Attention, please"
Feel the tension soon as someone mentions me
Here's my ten cents, my two cents is free
A nuisance, who sent? You sent for me?
[Chorus: Eminem]
Now, this looks like a job for me
So everybody, just follow me
'Cause we need a little controversy
'Cause it feels so empty without me
I said this looks like a job for me
So everybody, just follow me
'Cause we need a little controversy
'Cause it feels so empty without me

[Verse 3: Eminem]
A tisket, a tasket, I'll go tit-for-tat wit'
Anybody who's talkin', "This shit, that shit"
Chris Kirkpatrick, you can get your ass kicked
Worse than them little Limp Bizkit bastards
And Moby? You can get stomped by Obie
You thirty-six-year-old bald-headed fag, blow me
You don't know me, you're too old, let go
It's over, nobody listens to techno
Now, let's go, just give me the signal
I'll be there with a whole list full of new insults
I've been dope, suspenseful with a pencil
Ever since Prince turned himself into a symbol
But, sometimes, the shit just seems
Everybody only wants to discuss me
So this must mean I'm disgusting
But it's just me, I'm just obscene (Yeah)
Though I'm not the first king of controversy
I am the worst thing since Elvis Presley
To do Black music so selfishly
And use it to get myself wealthy (Hey)
There's a concept that works
Twenty million other white rappers emerge
But no matter how many fish in the sea
It'd be so empty without me
[Chorus: Eminem]
Now, this looks like a job for me
So everybody, just follow me
'Cause we need a little controversy
'Cause it feels so empty without me
I said this looks like a job for me
So everybody, just follow me
'Cause we need a little controversy
'Cause it feels so empty without me
[Outro: Eminem]
Hum, dei-dei, la-la
La-la, la-la-la
La-la, la-la-la
La-la, la-la
Hum, dei-dei, la-la
La-la, la-la-la
La-la, la-la-la
La-la, la-la
Kids447Embed

Title: Mockingbird
Release Date: November 12, 2004, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-mockingbird-lyrics
Song Description: Possibly the least offensive Eminem song ever, this Encore track is directed and dedicated to his daughters. Eminem acknowledges that growing up with his media image and Kims drug problem made for a difficult upbringing, not to mention their poverty-stricken beginnings. The lyrics are a personal, undisguised account of his early relationship with his wife and daughters. Critics praised the song for its lyrics. This song mixes an original rap dialogue about Eminems failed marriage, as he apologizes to his daughters with a straight melodic version of the traditional Mockingbird lullaby called Hush, Little Baby. The second verse is about the difficulties including Kim and Eminems divorce and the beginning of Eminems fame.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Yeah
I know sometimes
Things may not always make sense to you right now
But hey
What Daddy always tell you?
Straighten up, little soldier
Stiffen up that upper lip
What you cryin' about?
You got me

[Verse 1]
Hailie, I know you miss your mom, and I know you miss your dad
When I'm gone, but I'm tryin' to give you the life that I never had
I can see you're sad, even when you smile, even when you laugh
I can see it in your eyes, deep inside you wanna cry
'Cause you're scared, I ain't there, Daddy's wit' you in your prayers
No more cryin', wipe them tears, Daddy's here, no more nightmares
We gon' pull together through it, we gon' do it
Lainie, Uncle's crazy, ain't he? Yeah, but he loves you, girl, and you better know it
We're all we got in this world when it spins, when it swirls
When it whirls, when it twirls, two little beautiful girls
Lookin' puzzled, in a daze, I know it's confusin' you
Daddy's always on the move, Mama's always on the news
I try to keep you sheltered from it, but somehow it seems
The harder that I try to do that, the more it backfires on me
All the things growin' up as Daddy that he had to see
Daddy don't want you to see, but you see just as much as he did
We did not plan it to be this way, your mother and me
But things have got so bad between us, I don't see us ever bein'
Together ever again, like we used to be when we was teenagers
But then, of course, everything always happens for a reason
I guess it was never meant to be
But it's just somethin' we have no control over, and that's what destiny is
But no more worries, rest your head and go to sleep
Maybe one day we'll wake up and this'll all just be a dream
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Now hush, little baby, don't you cry
Everything's gonna be alright
Stiffen that upper lip up, little lady, I told ya
Daddy's here to hold ya through the night
I know Mommy's not here right now and we don't know why
We feel how we feel inside
It may seem a little crazy, pretty baby
But I promise Mama's gon' be alright

[Verse 2]
Heh, it's funny
I remember back one year when Daddy had no money
Mommy wrapped the Christmas presents up and stuck 'em under the tree
And said some of 'em were from me 'cause Daddy couldn't buy 'em
I'll never forget that Christmas, I sat up the whole night crying
'Cause Daddy felt like a bum—see, Daddy had a job
But his job was to keep the food on the table for you and Mom
And at the time, every house that we lived in
Either kept gettin' broken into and robbed or shot up on the block
And your Mom was savin' money for you in a jar
Tryin' to start a piggy bank for you so you could go to college
Almost had a thousand dollars 'til someone broke in and stole it
And I know it hurt so bad it broke your Mama's heart
And it seemed like everything was just startin' to fall apart
Mom and Dad was arguin' a lot
So Mama moved back on to Chalmers in the flat, one-bedroom apartment
And Dad moved back to the other side of 8 Mile on Novara
And that's when Daddy went to California with his CD
And met Dr. Dre, and flew you and Mama out to see me
But Daddy had to work, you and Mama had to leave me
Then you started seein' Daddy on the TV
And Mama didn't like it
And you and Lainie were too young to understand it
Papa was a rolling stone, Mama developed a habit
And it all happened too fast for either one of us to grab it
I'm just sorry you were there and had to witness it firsthand
'Cause all I ever wanted to do was just make you proud
Now I'm sittin' in this empty house just reminiscin'
Lookin' at your baby pictures, it just trips me out
To see how much you both have grown, it's almost like you're sisters now
Wow, guess you pretty much are, and Daddy's still here
Lainie, I'm talkin' to you too, Daddy's still here
I like the sound of that, yeah, it's got a ring to it, don't it?
Shh, Mama's only gone for the moment
[Chorus]
Now hush, little baby, don't you cry
Everything's gonna be alright
Stiffen that upper lip up, little lady, I told ya
Daddy's here to hold ya through the night
I know Mommy's not here right now and we don't know why
We feel how we feel inside
It may seem a little crazy, pretty baby
But I promise Mama's gon' be alright

[Outro]
And if you ask me to, Daddy's gonna buy you a mockingbird
I'ma give you the world
I'ma buy a diamond ring for you, I'ma sing for you
I'll do anything for you to see you smile
And if that mockingbird don't sing and that ring don't shine
I'ma break that birdie's neck
I'll go back to the jeweler who sold it to ya
And make him eat every carat, don't fuck with Dad (Haha)

Title: The Real Slim Shady
Release Date: April 18, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-the-real-slim-shady-lyrics
Song Description: The Real Slim Shady is the quintessential early Eminem songfunny and serious simultaneously, with crazy rhyme schemes and devices.

As K-Solo had asked, will the   Real Solo Please Stand Up in 1990, Eminem did here, clearly being influenced by the little-known track.

When Eminem originally handed his magnum opus, The Marshall Mathers LP, into Interscope, Jimmy Iovine stated the album was spectacular they needed a song to introduce the album. Frustrated, Eminem felt he couldnt produce another My Name Is, yet he was under pressure, so he began rush recording tracks, but instead of crafting a formulaic single, he recorded The Way I Am. Just prior to the deadline, Eminem got back in the studio with Dr. Dre and they swiftly crafted what became the albums lead single.

Shortly after the release of this song, a parody version was released as Will The Real Slim Shady Please Shut Up by Emily Ellis from the perspective of Christina Aguilera.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
May I have your attention, please?
May I have your attention, please?
Will the real Slim Shady please stand up?
I repeat
Will the real Slim Shady please stand up?
We're gonna have a problem here

[Verse 1]
Y'all act like you never seen a white person before
Jaws all on the floor like Pam, like Tommy just burst in the door
And started whoopin' her ass worse than before
They first were divorced, throwin' her over furniture (Agh)
It's the return of the "Oh, wait, no way, you're kidding
He didn't just say what I think he did, did he?"
And Dr. Dre said
Nothing, you idiots, Dr. Dre's dead, he's locked in my basement (Ha-ha)
Feminist women love Eminem
"Chicka-chicka-chicka, Slim Shady, I'm sick of him
Look at him, walkin' around, grabbin' his you-know-what
Flippin' the you-know-who", "Yeah, but he's so cute though"
Yeah, I probably got a couple of screws up in my head loose
But no worse than what's goin' on in your parents' bedrooms
Sometimes I wanna get on TV and just let loose
But can't, but it's cool for Tom Green to hump a dead moose
"My bum is on your lips, my bum is on your lips"
And if I'm lucky, you might just give it a little kiss
And that's the message that we deliver to little kids
And expect them not to know what a woman's clitoris is
Of course, they're gonna know what intercourse is
By the time they hit fourth grade they've got the Discovery Channel, don't they?
We ain't nothin' but mammals
Well, some of us cannibals who cut other people open like cantaloupes
But if we can hump dead animals and antelopes
Then there's no reason that a man and another man can't elope
But if you feel like I feel, I got the antidote
Women, wave your pantyhose, sing the chorus, and it goes
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?

[Verse 2]
Will Smith don't gotta cuss in his raps to sell records (Nope)
Well, I do, so fuck him, and fuck you too
You think I give a damn about a Grammy?
Half of you critics can't even stomach me, let alone stand me
"But Slim, what if you win? Wouldn't it be weird?"
Why? So you guys could just lie to get me here?
So you can sit me here next to Britney Spears?
Yo, shit, Christina Aguilera better switch me chairs
So I can sit next to Carson Daly and Fred Durst
And hear 'em argue over who she gave head to first
Little bitch put me on blast on MTV
"Yeah, he's cute, but I think he's married to Kim, hee-hee"
I should download her audio on MP3
And show the whole world how you gave Eminem VD (Agh)
I'm sick of you little girl and boy groups, all you do is annoy me
So I have been sent here to destroy you
And there's a million of us just like me
Who cuss like me, who just don't give a fuck like me
Who dress like me, walk, talk and act like me
And just might be the next best thing, but not quite me
[Chorus]
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?

[Verse 3]
I'm like a head trip to listen to
'Cause I'm only givin' you things you joke about with your friends inside your livin' room
The only difference is I got the balls to say it in front of y'all
And I don't gotta be false or sugarcoat it at all
I just get on the mic and spit it
And whether you like to admit it (Err), I just shit it
Better than ninety percent of you rappers out can
Then you wonder, "How can kids eat up these albums like Valiums?"
It's funny, 'cause at the rate I'm goin', when I'm thirty
I'll be the only person in the nursin' home flirting
Pinchin' nurse's asses when I'm jacking off with Jergens
And I'm jerking, but this whole bag of Viagra isn't working
And every single person is a Slim Shady lurkin'
He could be working at Burger King, spittin' on your onion rings (Ch, puh)
Or in the parkin' lot, circling, screaming, "I don't give a fuck!"
With his windows down and his system up
So will the real Shady please stand up
And put one of those fingers on each hand up?
And be proud to be out of your mind and out of control
And one more time, loud as you can, how does it go?
[Chorus]
I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?
'Cause I'm Slim Shady, yes, I'm the real Shady
All you other Slim Shadys are just imitating
So won't the real Slim Shady please stand up
Please stand up, please stand up?

[Outro]
Ha-ha
I guess there's a Slim Shady in all of us
Fuck it, let's all stand up436Embed

Title: Killshot
Release Date: September 14, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-killshot-lyrics
Song Description: Killshot is a response to Machine Gun Kellys RAP DEVIL, which was in itself a response to Not Alike from Eminems August 2018 album Kamikaze. The diss track dropped eleven days after RAP DEVIL and was discussed during Eminems four-part interview with Sway.

Em began targeting MGK following inappropriate Twitter comments about his daughter Hailie Jade in 2012. According to the second part of the Sway interview, it was MGKs subliminal disses during Power 106s May 2017 L.A. Leakers (Freestyle) and Tech N9nes March 2018 track, No Reason, that inspired Eminem to fire back.

Coincidentally, Killshot is the name of a 2008 movie directed by John Madden, and filmed in Eminems hometown of Detroit, Michigan. For that reason, fan theories have suggested Eminem must have known about the film. The plot features main character Carmen Colson, who is targeted by an experienced, psychopathic hitman. Colson Baker is Machine Gun Kellys government name.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
You sound like a bitch, bitch
Shut the fuck up
When your fans become your haters
You done?
Fuckin' beard's weird
Alright
You yellin' at the mic, fuckin' weird beard (You want smoke)
We doin' this once
You yellin' at the mic, your beard's weird
Why you yell at the mic? (Illa)

[Verse]
Rihanna just hit me on a text
Last night I left hickeys on her neck
Wait, you just dissed me? I'm perplexed
Insult me in a line, compliment me on the next
Damn, I'm really sorry you want me to have a heart attack
Was watchin' 8 Mile on my NordicTrack
Realized I forgot to call you back
Here's that autograph for your daughter, I wrote it on a Starter cap
Stan, Stan, son, listen, man, Dad isn't mad
But how you gonna name yourself after a damn gun and have a man-bun?
The giant's woke, eyes open, undeniable
Supplyin' smoke, got the fire stoked
Say you got me in a scope, but you grazed me
I say one call to Interscope and you're Swayze
Your reply got the crowd yelling, "Woo!"
So before you die let's see who can out-petty who
Wit' your corny lines ("Slim, you're old")—ow, Kelly, ooh
But I'm 45 and I'm still outselling you
By 29, I had three albums that had blew
Now let's talk about somethin' I don't really do
Go in someone's daughter's mouth stealin' food
But you're a fuckin' mole hill, now I'ma make a mountain out of you (Woo!)
Ho, chill, actin' like you put the chrome barrel to my bone marrow
Gunner? Bitch, you ain't a bow and arrow
Say you'll run up on me like a phone bill, sprayin' lead (Brrt)
Playin' dead, that's the only time you hold still (Hold up)
Are you eating cereal or oatmeal?
What the fuck's in the bowl, milk? Wheaties or Cheerios?
'Cause I'm takin' a shit in 'em, Kelly, I need reading material
…Dictionary…
"Yo, Slim, your last four albums sucked
Go back to Recovery," oh shoot, that was three albums ago
What do you know? Oops
Know your facts before you come at me, lil' goof
Luxury, oh, you broke, bitch? Yeah, I had enough money in '02
To burn it in front of you, ho
Younger me? No, you the wack me, it's funny but so true
I'd rather be 80-year-old me than 20-year-old you
'Til I'm hitting old age
Still can fill a whole page with a 10-year-old's rage
Got more fans than you in your own city, lil' kiddie, go play
Feel like I'm babysitting Lil Tay
Got the Diddy okay, so you spent your whole day
Shootin' a video just to fuckin' dig your own grave
Got you at your own wake, I'm the billy goat
You ain't never made a list next to no Biggie, no Jay
Next to Taylor Swift and that Iggy ho, you about to really blow
Kelly, they'll be putting your name
Next to Ja, next to Benzino—die, motherfucker!
Like the last motherfucker sayin' Hailie in vain
Alien brain, you Satanist (Yeah)
My biggest flops are your greatest hits
The game's mine again and ain't nothin' changed but the locks
So before I slay this bitch I, mwah, give Jade a kiss
Gotta wake up Labor Day to this (The fuck?)
Bein' rich-shamed by some prick usin' my name for clickbait
In a state of bliss 'cause I said his goddamn name
Now I gotta cock back, aim
Yeah, bitch, pop Champagne to this! (Pop)
It's your moment
This is it, as big as you're gonna get, so enjoy it
Had to give you a career to destroy it
Lethal injection, go to sleep six feet deep
I'll give you a B for the effort
But if I was three-foot-eleven, you'd look up to me
And for the record, you would suck a dick to fuckin' be me for a second
Lick a ballsack to get on my channel
Give your life to be as solidified
This motherfuckin' shit is like Rambo when he's out of bullets
So what good is a fuckin' machine gun when it's outta ammo?
Had enough of this tatted-up mumble rapper
How the fuck can him and I battle?
He'll have to fuck Kim in my flannel
I'll give him my sandals
'Cause he knows, long as I'm Shady, he's gon' have to live in my shadow
Exhausting, letting off on my offspring
Lick a gun barrel, bitch, get off me!
You dance around it like a sombrero, we can all see
You're fuckin' salty 'cause Young Gerald's balls-deep inside of Halsey
Your red sweater, your black leather
You dress better, I rap better
That a death threat or a love letter?
Little white toothpick
Thinks it's over a pic, I just don't like you, prick
Thanks for dissing me
Now I had an excuse on the mic to write "Not Alike"
But really, I don't care who's in the right
But you're losin' the fight you picked
Who else want it? Kells, attempt fails! Budden, L's!
Fuckin' nails in these coffins as soft as Cottonelle
Killshot, I will not fail, I'm with the Doc still
But this idiot's boss pops pills and tells him he's got skills
But, Kells, the day you put out a hit's the day Diddy admits
That he put the hit out that got Pac killed, ah
I'm sick of you bein' wack
And still usin' that mothafuckin' Auto-Tune
So let's talk about it (Let's talk about it)
I'm sick of your mumble rap mouth
Need to get the cock up out it
Before we can even talk about it (Talk about it)
I'm sick of your blonde hair and earrings
Just 'cause you look in the mirror and think
That you're Marshall Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
Don't mean you are, and you're not about it
So just leave my dick in your mouth and keep my daughter out it
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Outro]
You fuckin'—, oh
And I'm just playin', Diddy
You know I love you1.8KEmbed

Title: Godzilla
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-godzilla-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem and late rapper Juice WRLD team up for the first time on Godzilla, where they compare themselves to monsters. In particular, they become Godzilla, a fictional sea monster that is known for its mass destruction and endless killing.

While this track marks the first collaboration between the two artists, Juice previously listed Em as one of his biggest influences and has frequently referenced his music, most notably on his May 2018 track, Lean Wit Me. In October 2018, Juice joined Tim Westwood TV, where he freestyled close to an hour over different Eminem beats.

Godzilla also serves as Juice WRLDs first posthumous release since his passing on December 8, 2019six days after his 21st birthday. Juice reportedly recorded the chorus for the track before his untimely death, although he was unable to complete his actual verse for the song in time. Later in January 2020, a picture surfaced on XXL that depicted Juice WRLD and his friends after he recorded the chorus.

Genius broke down the song on January 17, 2020, in an edition of their Song Stories series. In March 2020 interview with Genius, producer d.a. got that dope broke down how the song came together.

The song would receive its first certification on February 5, 2020, when it was certified Gold by Music Canada making it the first official certification for the single.

The official music video dropped on March 9, 2020, directed by Cole Bennett, one of the biggest names in music video production, and starred Dr. Dre, retired boxer Mike Tyson, Eminem, actress Anna Dahl, and actor George Todd McLachlan, portraying a young Eminem. Juice WRLD appears in the video as well using older stock footage.

Em launched the #GodzillaChallenge on February 25th, 2020, which encouraged fans to spit the fast third in creative ways, lip syncing or rapping, on the Triller app in order to win a shout out and signed lithograph. He announced the winner on March 18th, Jack Sherlock. The fan lip synced Ems verse while simultaneously showing his collection of vinyl Eminem albums.

In March 2022, it was confirmed by Chris Long (Juices Videographer) that Juice WRLD had recorded two extra verses on the beat. There is currently no confirmation if theyll ever be released.

https://twitter.com/TravisWorlddd/status/1509592068016033807
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Ugh, you're a monster

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I can swallow a bottle of alcohol and I'll feel like Godzilla
Better hit the deck like the card dealer
My whole squad's in here, walking around the party
A cross between a zombie apocalypse and B-Bobby "The
Brain" Heenan which is probably the
Same reason I wrestle with mania
Shady's in this bitch, I'm posse'd up
Consider it to cross me a costly mistake
If they sleepin' on me, the hoes better get insomnia
ADHD, Hydroxycut
Pass the Courvoisier (Hey, hey)
In AA with an AK, melee, finna set it like a playdate
Better vacate, retreat like a vacay, mayday (Ayy)
This beat is cray-cray, Ray J, H-A-H-A-H-A
Laughing all the way to the bank, I spray flames
They cannot tame or placate the

[Chorus: Juice WRLD with Eminem]
Monster
You get in my way, I'ma feed you to the monster (Yeah)
I'm normal during the day, but at night, turn to a monster (Yeah)
When the moon shines like Ice Road Truckers
I look like a villain outta those blockbusters
Godzilla, fire spitter, monster
Blood on the dance floor, and on the Louis V carpet
Fire, Godzilla, fire, monster
Blood on the dance floor, and on the Louis V carpet
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
I'm just a product of Slick Rick and Onyx, told 'em lick the balls
Had 'em just appalled, did so many things that pissed 'em off
It's impossible to list 'em all
And in the midst of all this
I'm in a mental hospital with a crystal ball
Tryna see, will I still be like this tomorrow?
Risperdal, voices whisper
My fist is balled back up against the wall, pencil drawn
This is just the song to go ballistic on
You just pulled a pistol on the guy with a missile launcher
I'm just a Loch Ness, the mythological
Quick to tell a bitch screw off like a fifth of vodka
When you twist the top of the bottle, I'm a

[Chorus: Juice WRLD with Eminem]
Monster
You get in my way, I'ma feed you to the monster (Yeah)
I'm normal during the day, but at night, turn to a monster (Yeah)
When the moon shines like Ice Road Truckers
I look like a villain outta those blockbusters
Godzilla, fire spitter, monster
Blood on the dance floor, and on the Louis V carpet
Fire, Godzilla, fire, monster
Blood on the dance floor, and on the Louis V carpet
[Verse 3: Eminem]
If you never gave a damn (Ayy), raise your hand
'Cause I'm about to set trip, vacation plans
I'm on point like my index is, so all you will ever get is
The motherfuckin' finger (Finger), prostate exam ('Xam)
How can I have all these fans and perspire?
Like a liar's pants, I'm on fire
And I got no plans to retire and I'm still the man you admire
These chicks are spazzin' out, I only get more handsome and flyer
I got 'em passin' out like what you do when you hand someone flyers
And what goes around comes around just like the blades on the chainsaw
'Cause I caught the flack, but my dollars stacked right off the bat like a baseball
Like Kid Ink, bitch, I got them racks with so much ease that they call me Diddy
'Cause I make bands and I call getting cheese a cakewalk (Cheesecake, yeah)
Bitch, I'm a player, I'm too motherfuckin' stingy for Cher
Won't even lend you an ear, ain't even pretending to care
But I tell a bitch I'll marry her if she'll bury her
Face in my genital area, the original Richard Ramirez
Cristhian Rivera, 'cause my lyrics never sit well
So they wanna give me the chair
Like a paraplegic, and it's scary, call it Hari Kari
'Cause e'ry Tom and Dick and Harry carry a Merriam motherfuckin' dictionary on 'em
Swearing up and down they can spit, this shit's hilarious
It's time to put these bitches in the obituary column
We wouldn't see eye to eye with a staring problem
Get the shaft like a steering column (Monster)
Trigger happy, pack heat, but it's black ink
Evil half of the Bad Meets
Evil, that means take a back seat
Take it back to Fat Beats with a maxi single
Look at my rap sheet, what attracts these people
Is my 'Gangsta Bitch' like Apache with a catchy jingle
I stack chips, you barely got a half-eaten Cheeto
Fill 'em with the venom and eliminate 'em
Other words, I Minute Maid 'em
I don't wanna hurt 'em, but I did, I'm in a fit of rage
I'm murderin' again, nobody will evade
I'm finna kill 'em and dump all their fuckin' bodies in the lake
Obliterating everything, incinerate a renegade
I'm here to make anybody who want it with the pen afraid
But don't nobody want it, but they're gonna get it anyway
'Cause I'm beginnin' to feel like I'm mentally ill
I'm Attila, kill or be killed, I'm a killer bee, the vanilla gorilla
You're bringin' the killer within me outta me
You don't wanna be the enemy of the demon who entered me
And be on the receivin' end of me, what stupidity it'd be
Every bit of me's the epitome of a spitter
When I'm in the vicinity, motherfucker, you better duck
Or you finna be dead the minute you run into me
A hundred percent of you is a fifth of a percent of me
I'm 'bout to fuckin' finish you, bitch, I'm unfadable
You wanna battle, I'm available, I'm blowin' up like an inflatable
I'm undebatable, I'm unavoidable, I'm unevadable
I'm on the toilet bowl, I got a trailer full of money and I'm paid in full
I'm not afraid to pull a—
[Outro: Eminem]
Man, stop
Look what I'm plannin', haha1.3KEmbed

Title: Stan
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-stan-lyrics
Song Description: In this song, Eminem corresponds with a crazed fan who becomes increasingly unhinged as the story progresses. This is one of his most well-received singles and was listed at #15 on VH1s Top 100 Hip Hop Songs of All Time.

Eminem intended for this song to be a message to fans who had written him disturbing letters indicating that they had taken The Slim Shady LPs violent lyrics seriously. Another reason Em wrote this was to make the critics who were saying things about [him] feel stupid. His aim was to disprove those who felt he lacked talent and relied on shock value.

This song has cemented itself in history, with Stan being entered into the Oxford Dictionary as an informal noun. It is generally considered to be a portmanteau of stalker and fan, but Oxford defines the term as:

An overzealous or obsessive fan of a particular celebrity.

In a 2011 Shade 45 appearance, Em revealed that:

There was a verse where [Stan] got out of the water. He escaped and came to my house to kill me. Then I had to kill him first, [but] I missed him, and he was in the hospital for like three weeks. Then he was pissed off that I didnt write him get-well cards, so he came to kill me again, and in the last verse finally I just blew his head off.

In 2013, Eminem released a follow-up in the form of Bad Guy, wherein Stans younger brother Matthew avenges his brothers death.
Lyrics:

[Produced by DJ Mark the 45 King]
[Intro: Dido]
My tea's gone cold, I'm wondering why I
Got out of bed at all
The morning rain clouds up my window (Window)
And I can't see at all
And even if I could, it'd all be grey
But your picture on my wall
It reminds me that it's not so bad, it's not so bad (Bad)
[Chorus: Dido]
My tea's gone cold, I'm wondering why I
Got out of bed at all
The morning rain clouds up my window (Window)
And I can't see at all
And even if I could, it'd all be grey
But your picture on my wall
It reminds me that it's not so bad, it's not so bad (Bad)
[Verse 1: Eminem]
Dear Slim, I wrote you, but you still ain't callin'
I left my cell, my pager, and my home phone at the bottom
I sent two letters back in autumn, you must not've got 'em
There prob'ly was a problem at the post office or somethin'
Sometimes I scribble addresses too sloppy when I jot 'em
But anyways, fuck it, what's been up, man? How's your daughter?
My girlfriend's pregnant too, I'm 'bout to be a father
If I have a daughter, guess what I'ma call her? I'ma name her Bonnie
I read about your Uncle Ronnie too, I'm sorry
I had a friend kill himself over some bitch who didn't want him
I know you prob'ly hear this every day, but I'm your biggest fan
I even got the underground shit that you did with Skam
I got a room full of your posters and your pictures, man
I like the shit you did with Rawkus too, that shit was phat
Anyways, I hope you get this, man, hit me back
Just to chat, truly yours, your biggest fan, this is Stan
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Dido]
My tea's gone cold, I'm wondering why I
Got out of bed at all
The morning rain clouds up my window (Window)
And I can't see at all
And even if I could, it'd all be grey
But your picture on my wall
It reminds me that it's not so bad, it's not so bad (Bad)
[Verse 2: Eminem]
Dear Slim, you still ain't called or wrote, I hope you have a chance
I ain't mad, I just think it's fucked up you don't answer fans
If you didn't want to talk to me outside your concert, you didn't have to
But you coulda signed an autograph for Matthew
That's my little brother, man, he's only six years old
We waited in the blisterin' cold for you, for four hours, and you just said, "no"
That's pretty shitty, man, you're like his fuckin' idol
He wants to be just like you, man, he likes you more than I do
I ain't that mad, though I just don't like bein' lied to
Remember when we met in Denver? You said if I'd write you, you would write back
See, I'm just like you in a way: I never knew my father neither
He used to always cheat on my mom and beat her
I can relate to what you're sayin' in your songs
So when I have a shitty day, I drift away and put 'em on
'Cause I don't really got shit else, so that shit helps when I'm depressed
I even got a tattoo with your name across the chest
Sometimes I even cut myself to see how much it bleeds
It's like adrenaline, the pain is such a sudden rush for me
See, everything you say is real, and I respect you 'cause you tell it
My girlfriend's jealous 'cause I talk about you 24/7
But she don't know you like I know you, Slim, no one does
She don't know what it was like for people like us growin' up
You gotta call me, man, I'll be the biggest fan you'll ever lose
Sincerely yours, Stan, PS: We should be together too
[Chorus: Dido]
My tea's gone cold, I'm wondering why I
Got out of bed at all
The morning rain clouds up my window (Window)
And I can't see at all
And even if I could, it'd all be grey
But your picture on my wall
It reminds me that it's not so bad, it's not so bad (Bad)
[Verse 3: Eminem]
Dear Mr. I'm-Too-Good-to-Call-or-Write-My-Fans
This'll be the last package I ever send your ass
It's been six months, and still no word, I don't deserve it?
I know you got my last two letters, I wrote the addresses on 'em perfect
So this is my cassette I'm sendin' you, I hope you hear it
I'm in the car right now, I'm doin' ninety on the freeway
Hey, Slim, I drank a fifth of vodka, you dare me to drive?
You know the song by Phil Collins, "In the Air of the Night"
About that guy who coulda saved that other guy from drownin'
But didn't, then Phil saw it all, then at a show he found him?
That's kinda how this is: You coulda rescued me from drownin'
Now it's too late, I'm on a thousand downers now, I'm drowsy
And all I wanted was a lousy letter or a call
I hope you know I ripped all of your pictures off the wall
I loved you, Slim, we coulda been together, think about it
You ruined it now, I hope you can't sleep and you dream about it
And when you dream, I hope you can't sleep and you scream about it
I hope your conscience eats at you, and you can't breathe without me
See, Slim, shut up, bitch! I'm tryna talk
Hey, Slim, that's my girlfriend screamin' in the trunk
But I didn't slit her throat, I just tied her up, see? I ain't like you
'Cause if she suffocates she'll suffer more and then she'll die too
Well, gotta go, I'm almost at the bridge now
Oh, shit, I forgot, how am I supposed to send this shit out?!
[Chorus: Dido]
My tea's gone cold, I'm wondering why I
Got out of bed at all
The morning rain clouds up my window (Window)
And I can't see at all
And even if I could, it'd all be grey
But your picture on my wall
It reminds me that it's not so bad, it's not so bad (Bad)

[Verse 4: Eminem]
Dear Stan, I meant to write you sooner, but I just been busy
You said your girlfriend's pregnant now, how far along is she?
Look, I'm really flattered you would call your daughter that
And here's an autograph for your brother, I wrote it on a Starter cap
I'm sorry I didn't see you at the show, I must've missed you
Don't think I did that shit intentionally just to diss you
But what's this shit you said about you like to cut your wrists too?
I say that shit just clownin', dawg, come on, how fucked up is you?
You got some issues, Stan, I think you need some counselin'
To help your ass from bouncin' off the walls when you get down some
And what's this shit about us meant to be together?
That type of shit'll make me not want us to meet each other
I really think you and your girlfriend need each other
Or maybe you just need to treat her better
I hope you get to read this letter, I just hope it reaches you in time
Before you hurt yourself, I think that you'll be doin' just fine
If you relax a little, I'm glad I inspire you, but, Stan
Why are you so mad? Try to understand that I do want you as a fan
I just don't want you to do some crazy shit
I seen this one shit on the news a couple weeks ago that made me sick
Some dude was drunk and drove his car over a bridge
And had his girlfriend in the trunk, and she was pregnant with his kid
And in the car, they found a tape, but they didn't say who it was to
Come to think about it, his name was, it was you
Damn673Embed

Title: Houdini
Release Date: May 31, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-houdini-lyrics
Song Description: Houdini is the lead single of Eminems twelfth studio album The Death of Slim Shady (Coup de Grce). The track is named after Harry Houdini, a popular magician known for his death-defying stunts like the Chinese Water Torture Cell, which Eminem replicates in the intro to his 1999 track, Role Model.

With the return of long-time collaborator Jeff Bass of the Bass Brothers, Eminem revisits his catchy albeit morbid sound of the early 2000s. This fanfare track sees him callback to his old catchphrases such as Shadys iconic Guess whos back? line from the 2002 track Without Me. The song heavily samples and interpolates the Steve Miller Bands 1982 track Abracadabra.

On October 24, 1926, the legendary Houdini tragically passed away in Detroit, Michigan at the age of 52. Interestingly, Detroit is also the hometown of Eminem, who turns 52 in October 2024.

The single was first teased by Eminem on May 20, 2024, when he posted a teaser to his social media accounts with a text message from All Contacts stating, and for my last trick! The text message also has the date of May 31, sparking rumors of Eminem releasing music on that day.

On May 28, 2024, Eminem posted a video to Instagram of him on a FaceTime call with magician David Blaine. At the end of the video, he announced the release of Houdini on May 31, then closed out by stating for my last trick, Im gonna make my career disappear, hinting at The Death of Slim Shady (Coup de Grce) being his final album.
Lyrics:

[Skit: Paul Rosenberg]
Hey, Em, it's Paul
Uh, I was listening to the album
Good fucking luck, you're on your own

[Intro: Eminem]
Guess who's back, back again?
Shady's back, tell a friend
Guess who's back, guess who's back
Guess who's back, guess who's back
Guess who's back, guess who's back
Guess who's back
(Da-da-da, da, da, da, da, da, da)
(Da-da-da, da, da, da, da)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Well, look what the stork brung
(What?) Little baby devil with the forked tongue
And it's stickin' out, yeah, like a sore thumb
(Bleah) With a forehead that it grew horns from
Still a white jerk
Pullin' up in a Chrysler to the cypher with the vic's, percs and a Bud Light shirt
Lyrical technician, an electrician y'all light work
And I don't gotta play pretend, it's you I make believe
And you know I'm here to stay 'cause me
If I was to ever take a leave, It would be aspirin to break a feve
If I was to ask for Megan Thee Stallion if she would collab with me
Would I really have a shot at a feat? (Ha!)
I don't know, but I'm glad to be back, like
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
Abra-abracadabra
(And for my last trick) I'm 'bout to reach in my bag, bruh
Abra-abracadabra
(And for my last trick, poof) Just like that and I'm back, bruh

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Now back in the days of old me
(When) Right around the time I became a dope fiend
Ate some codeine, as a way of coping taste of opiates, case of O.E
​Turned me into smiley face emoji
My shit may not be age appropri—
Ate but I will hit an eight year old in the face with a participation trophy
'Cause I have zero doubts
That this whole world's 'bout to turn into some girl scouts
That censorship bureau's out
To shut me down so when I started this verse
It did start off light-hearted at first
But it feels like I'm targeted
Mind bogglin' how my profit has skyrocketed, look what I pocketed
Yeah, the shit is just like y'all have been light joggin' and I've been running at full speed
And that's why I'm ahead like my noggin, and I'm the fight y'all get in
When you debate who the best but ops I'm white-chalkin' when
I step up to that mic, cock it then
"Oh my god, it's him... not again!"
[Chorus: Eminem]
Abra-abracadabra
(And for my last trick) I'm 'bout to reach in my bag, bruh
Abra-abracadabra
(And for my last trick, poof) Just like that and I'm back, bruh

[Bridge: Eminem]
Sometimes I wonder what the old me'd say
(If what?) If he could see the way shit is today
(Look at this shit, man) He'd probably say that everything is gay
(Like happy!) What's my name, what's my name?

[Verse 3: Eminem]
So, how many little kids still wanna act like me?
I'm a bigger prick than cacti be
And that's why these words sting, just like you were being attacked by bees
In the coupe leaning back my seat
Bumpin' R. Kelly's favorite group, the black guy pee's
In my Air Max 90's
White T's walkin' parental advisory
My transgender cat's Siamese
Identifies as black, but acts Chinese
Like a motherfuckin' hacky sack I treat the whole world, 'cause I got it at my feet
How can I explain to you?
That even myself, I'm a danger too
I hop on tracks like a kangaroo
And say a few things or two to anger you
But fuck that, if I think that shit, I'ma say that shit
Cancel me what? Okay, that's it, go ahead, Paul, quit
Snake-ass prick, you male crossdresser, fake-ass bitch
And I'll probably get shit for that
(Watch) But you can all suck my dick, in fact
Fuck them, fuck Dre, fuck Jimmy, fuck me, fuck you, fuck my own kids they're brats (Fuck 'em)
They can screw-off, them and you all
You too, Paul, got two balls, big as RuPaul's, what you thought you saw ain't what you saw
'Cause you're never gon' see me
Caught sleepin' and see the kidnappin' never did happen
Like Sherri Papini, Harry Houdini, I vanish into the thin air as I'm leaving, like
[Chorus: Eminem]
Abra-abracadabra
(And for my last trick) I'm 'bout to reach in my bag, bruh
Abra-abracadabra
(And for my last trick, poof) Just like that and I'm back, bruh143Embed

Title: The Monster
Release Date: October 29, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-the-monster-lyrics
Song Description: The Monster is Eminems fourth single from The Marshall Mathers LP 2. Incidentally, it also marks the fourth time Eminem and Rihanna have collaborated.

This dark and emotional track has Eminem considering his Shady alter-ego a monster. The monster could also be the fame which has taken so much from him, or perhaps the true monster is his mind and the demons that plague it.

This hook was co-written by Bebe Rexha and Jon Bellion, and went on to win the award for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 2015 Grammys.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Rihanna]
I'm friends with the monster that's under my bed
Get along with the voices inside of my head
You're tryin' to save me, stop holdin' your breath
And you think I'm crazy, yeah, you think I'm crazy
[Verse 1: Eminem]
I wanted the fame but not the cover of Newsweek
Oh well, guess beggars can't be choosey
Wanted to receive attention for my music
Wanted to be left alone in public, excuse me
For wantin' my cake, and eat it too, and wantin' it both ways
Fame made me a balloon 'cause my ego inflated
When I blew, see, but it was confusing
'Cause all I wanted to do's be the Bruce Lee of loose leaf
Abused ink, used it as a tool when I blew steam
Woo! Hit the lottery, ooh-wee
But with what I gave up to get it was bittersweet
It was like winnin' a used mink
Ironic 'cause I think I'm gettin' so huge I need a shrink
I'm beginnin' to lose sleep: one sheep, two sheep
Goin' coo-coo and kooky as Kool Keith
But I'm actually weirder than you think, 'cause I'm—
[Chorus: Rihanna]
I'm friends with the monster that's under my bed
Get along with the voices inside of my head
You're tryin' to save me, stop holdin' your breath
And you think I'm crazy, yeah, you think I'm crazy
Well, that's nothin'
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Post-Chorus: Rihanna & Bebe Rexha]
New-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo (Oh)
Well, that's nothin'
New-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo

[Verse 2: Eminem & Bebe Rexha]
Now, I ain't much of a poet
But I know somebody once told me to seize the moment and don't squander it
'Cause you never know when it all could be over tomorrow
So I keep conjurin'
Sometimes I wonder where these thoughts spawn from
Yeah, ponderin'll do you wonders
No wonder you're losin' your mind, the way it wanders
(New-hoo, ooh-hoo) Yodel-odel-ay-hee-hoo!
I think it went wanderin' off down yonder
And stumbled onto Jeff VanVonderen
'Cause I need an interventionist
To intervene between me and this monster
And save me from myself and all this conflict
'Cause the very thing that I love's killin' me and I can't conquer it
My OCD's conkin' me in the head, keep knockin'
Nobody's home, I'm sleepwalkin'
I'm just relayin' what the voice in my head's sayin'
Don't shoot the messenger, I'm just friends with the—
[Chorus: Rihanna]
I'm friends with the monster that's under my bed
Get along with the voices inside of my head
You're tryin' to save me, stop holdin' your breath
And you think I'm crazy, yeah, you think I'm crazy
Well, that's nothin'
[Post-Chorus: Rihanna & Bebe Rexha]
New-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo (Oh)
Well, that's nothin'
New-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Call me crazy, but I have this vision, one day that
I'll walk amongst you a regular civilian
But until then, drums get killed and I'm comin' straight at
MCs, blood gets spilled and I'll
Take you back to the days that I'd get on a Dre track
Give every kid who got played that
Pumped-up feelin' and shit to say back
To the kids who played him
I ain't here to save the fuckin' children
But if one kid out of a hundred million
Who are goin' through a struggle, feels it and relates, that's great
It's payback, Russell Wilson fallin' way back in the draft
Turn nothin' into somethin', still can make that
Straw into gold, chump, I will spin—Rumpelstiltskin in a haystack
Maybe I need a straightjacket
Face facts: I am nuts for real, but I'm okay with that
It's nothin', I'm still friends with the—
[Chorus: Rihanna, Eminem, Rihanna & Eminem]
I'm friends with the monster that's under my bed
Get along with the voices inside of my head
You're tryin' to save me, stop holdin' your breath
And you think I'm crazy, yeah, you think I'm crazy
I'm friends with the monster that's under my bed
(Get along with) Get along with the voices inside of my head
(You're tryin' to) You're tryin' to save me, stop holdin' your breath
(And you think) And you think I'm crazy, yeah, you think I'm crazy
Well, that's nothin'
[Post-Chorus: Rihanna & Eminem, Bebe Rexha]
New-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo (Oh)
Well, that's nothin'
New-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo, new-hoo, ooh-hoo909Embed

Title: Lucky You
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-lucky-you-lyrics
Song Description: Lucky You marks the first collaboration between Eminem and Joyner Lucas, whom people have pointed out, shares many characteristics with Em in terms of rhyme and flow.

Their verses are polar opposites, a thematic structure often employed by Joyner in his songs to show opposing perspectives of the same topic (see Ross Capicchioni and Im Not Racist).

Here, Joyner comments on how he hasnt received any awards, although he is steadily gaining recognition. For instance, the video for his song Im Not Racist went viral in 2017.

Ems verse, on the other hand, is about how hes at the top in terms of awards and status but is being overlooked in the current rap scene. This is a recurring theme throughout this album as well as other 2018 releases, such as the remix of Chloraseptic.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Joyner Lucas]
Woah, Joyner, Joyner, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah

[Refrain: Joyner Lucas]
Yeah, I done did a lot of things in my day, I admit it
I don't take back what I say, if I said it, then I meant it
All my life I want a Grammy, but I'll prolly never get it
I ain't never had no trophy or no motherfuckin' ribbon (Yeah, yeah, yeah)
Fuck the system, I'm that nigga, bend the law, cut the rules
I'm about to risk it all, I ain't got too much to lose (Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah)
Y'all been eatin' long enough, it's my turn to cut the food (Yeah)
Pass the plate (Yeah), where my drink (Hol' up)?
This my day (Yeah, yeah), lucky you, fuck you too, woo

[Chorus: Joyner Lucas]
Y'all gotta move, y'all gotta move, y'all gotta move
Give me some room (Woo), give me some room (Hey), give me the juice
Hop out the coupe, hop out the coupe, hop out and shoot
Y'all gotta move (Boom, bap), y'all gotta move (Woo), give me the juice

[Verse 1: Joyner Lucas]
Back on my bullshit, my back to the wall
Turn my back on you, all of you finished (Bap, bop, bop)
Back to these bullets, it's back to the job
Pull my MAC out and all of you runnin' (Yeah, yeah, yeah)
Back on my hood shit, it's back to the pushin'
These packs and I'm actually pumpin'
Can't fuck with you rappers, you practically suckin' (Yeah)
You might'a went platinum but that don't mean nothin'
I'm actually buzzin' this time
Straight out the kitchen, I told 'em the oven is mine
I do not fuck with you guys (Woo)
If I don't kill you, just know you gon' suffer this time (Yeah)
I ain't no gangster, but I got some bangers
Some chains and some blades and a couple of knives
Choppers and jammies, a partridge, a pear tree
My Twelve Days of Christmas was nothin' but lies (I)
Run at you hard like a sumo (Sumo)
They say I talk like a chulo (Chulo)
I live on Mars, I'm not Bruno (Woo)
Bitch, I'm a dog, call me Cujo (Rah)
You play your cards, I reverse on you all
And I might just draw four like a Uno (Bup)
Cállate boca mejor, maricón
Little puto, and all of you culo (Joyner)
They've invented a level up in the ghetto to get old
Lookin' for somethin' I prolly can never find now (Yeah, yeah)
Shit get relevant 'til all the beef die down (Yeah)
In truth, a nigga just really want me tied down (Bop, bop)
I've been alone and I never needed nobody
Just only me and my shawty, I'll tell these niggas to lie down
Keep all the money, I never wanted the lifestyle
I just pray to God that my son'll be alright now (Woo! Woo!)
I said ain't no love for the other side
Or anyone who ever want smoke (Joyner)
When I die I'm goin' out as the underdog who never lost hope (Yeah)
You in the wrong cab, down the wrong path
Nigga, wrong way, wrong road (Woo, woo)
Snakes in the grass tryna slither fast
I just bought a fuckin' lawn mower (Vroom)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Refrain: Eminem]
I done said a lotta things in my day, I admit it
This is payback in a way (Yeah), I regret it that I did it
I done won a couple Grammys, but I sold my soul to get 'em (Ah)
Wasn't in it for the trophies (Nah), just the fuckin' recognition
Fuck's the difference? I'm that cracker, bend the law, fuck the rules
Man, I used to risk it all, now I got too much to lose
I've been eatin' long enough, man, my stomach should be full
I just ate, licked the plate, my buffet, lucky me, fuck you think? (Woo!)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I got a couple of mansions
Still, I don't have any manners
You got a couple of ghostwriters
But to these kids, it don't actually matter
They're askin' me, "What the fuck happened to hip-hop?"
I said, "I don't have any answers"
'Cause I took an L when I dropped my last album
It hurt me like hell, but I'm back on these rappers (Yeah)
And actually comin' from humble beginnings
I'm somewhat uncomfortable winning
I wish I could say, "What a wonderful feeling!
We're on the upswing like we're punchin' the ceiling!"
But nothin' is feeling like anyone has any fuckin' ability
To even stick to a subject, it's killin' me
The inability to pen humility
Ha-ta-ta, ba-ta-ta, why don't we make a bunch of
Fuckin' songs about nothin' and mumble 'em?
Fuck it, I'm goin' for the jugular
Shit is a circus, you clowns that are comin' up
Don't give an ounce of a motherfuck
About the ones that were here before you that made rap (Yeah)
Let's recap, way back, MCs that (What?)
Wreak havoc on tape decks (Woo)
ADAT's, where the G Raps and Kanes at?
We need 3 Stacks ASAP and bring Masta Ace back
'Cause half of these rappers have brain damage
All the lean rappin', face tats, syruped out like tree sap
I don't hate trap (Nah), and I don't wanna seem mad
But in fact (Yeah), where the old me at? The same cat
That would take that feedback and aim back, I need that
But I think it's inevitable they know what button to press
Or what lever to pull to give me to snap though (Lil' bitch)
And if I pay it attention, I'm prob'ly makin' it bigger
But you've been takin' ya dicks and I'm fuckin' back, ho (Get it?)
On the brink, any minute got me thinkin' of finishin'
Everything with acetaminophen and reapin' the benefits
I'm asleep at the wheel again, as I begin to thinkin' about an evil intent of another beat I'ma kill again
'Cause even if I gotta end up eating a pill again
Even ketamine or methamphetamine with the minithin
It better be at least seventy or three-hundred milligram
And I might as well 'cause I'ma end up bein' a villain again
Levels to this shit, I got an elevator
You could never say to me I'm not a fuckin' record breaker (Yeah)
I sound like a broken record every time I break a record
Nobody could ever take away the legacy I made, I never cater
Motherfucker, now I got a right to be this way
I got spite inside my DNA (Yeah)
But I roll 'til the wheels fall off, I'm working tirelessly, ayy
It's the moment y'all been waitin' for like California
Wishin' rain to pour in that drought, y'all
Been prayin' for my downfall (Yeah)
From the 8 Mile to the Southpaw
Still the same Marshall, that outlaw
That they say as a writer might've fell off
I'm back on that bull like the cowboys
[Chorus: Eminem & Joyner Lucas]
So y'all gotta move, yeah, y'all gotta move, yeah, y'all gotta move
Give me some room (Woo), give me some room (Hey), give me the juice
Hop out the coupe (Joyner), hop out the coupe (Joyner), hop out and shoot
Y'all gotta move (Boom, bap), y'all gotta move (Woo), give me the juice810Embed

Title: The Ringer
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-the-ringer-lyrics
Song Description: The Ringer sees Eminem continuing his criticism of the state of hip-hop in 2018, focusing especially on mumble rappers, some of whom he calls out by name like Lil Xan and Lil Pump.

The song also continues themes he explored on 2018s Chloraseptic (Remix). Specifically, Eminem criticizes the double standards of the public towards him in the wake of his 9th album, Revival. Critics are rewarded for pushing negative views about him, but should he retaliate, he falls further in their esteem.

Finally, Em also takes aim at Donald Trump again, pointing out that the President has yet to answer his  2017 BET Hip-Hop Awards Cypher Verse as well as several other missives he sent on Revival.

The title of the song is also a reference to the movie The Ringer. In the film, the protagonist pretends to be mentally disabled in order to enter and win the Special Olympics. Em is basically saying hes stooping to the level of the mumble rappers to beat them at their own game.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
*Plane crash*
Yeah (Illa, Illa, Illa)
Yo, I'm just gonna write down my first thoughts, and see where this takes me, ’cause I feel like I wanna punch the world in the fuckin' face right now
Yeah
[Verse]
Let me explain just how to make greatness
Straight out the gate, I'm ’bout to break it down
Ain't no mistakes allowed, but make no mistake, I'm 'bout
To rape the alphabet, I may raise some brows
If I press the issue just to get the anger out (Brrr!)
Full magazine could take Staples out
Savage but ain't thinkin' 'bout no bank account
But bitch, I'm off the chain like Kala Brown
Motherfucker, shut the fuck up when I’m talkin’, lil' bitch
I’m sorry, wait, what's your talent? Oh, critiquin'
My talent? Oh, bitch, I don't know who the fuck y’all are
To give a sub-par bar or even have an opinion of you
You mention me, millions of views, attention in news
I mention you, lose-lose for me, win-win for you
Billions of views, your ten cents are two
Skim through the music to give shit reviews
To get clicks, but bitch, you just lit the fuse
Don't get misconstrued, business as us'
Shit-list renewed, so get shit to do
Or get dissed 'cause I just don't get
What the fuck half the shit is that you're listenin' to
Do you have any idea how much I hate this choppy flow
Everyone copies though? Prob'ly no
Get this fuckin' audio out my Audi, yo, adiós
I can see why people like Lil Yachty, but not me though
Not even dissin', it just ain't for me
All I am simply is just an MC
Maybe "Stan" just isn't your cup of tea (Get it?)
Maybe your cup's full of syrup and lean
Maybe I need to stir up shit, preferably
Shake the world up if it were up to me
Paul wants me to chill, y'all want me to ill
I should eat a pill, probably I will
Old me killed the new me, watch him bleed to death
I breathe on the mirror, I don't see my breath
Possibly I'm dead, I must be possessed
Like an evil spell, I'm E-V-I-L ("Evil" spelled)
Jam a Crest Whitestrip in the tip of my dick
With an ice pick, stick it in a vise grip
Hang it on a spike fence, bang it with a pipe wrench
While I take my ball sack and flick it like a light switch
Like Vice President Mike Pence
Back up on my shit in a sidekick as I lay it on a spike strip
These are things that I'd rather do than hear you on a mic
Since nine tenths of your rhyme is about ice and
Jesus Christ, man, how many times is
Someone gonna fuck on my bitch? (Fuck my side chick!)
You won't ever see Em icy
But as cold as I get on the M-I-C
I polarize shit, so the Thames might freeze
And your skull might split like I bashed you upside it
Bitch, I got the club on smash like a nightstick (Yeah)
Turn down for what?
I ain't loud enough, nah, turn the Valium up (Illa, Illa, Illa)
'Cause I don't know how I'm gonna get your mouths to shut
Now when it doesn't matter what caliber
I spit at, I'll bet a hundred thousand bucks
You'll turn around and just be like, "Man, how the fuck
Sourpuss gonna get mad just 'cause his album sucks?
And now he wants to take it out on us" (Ooouuu)
But last week, an ex-fan mailed me a copy
Of The Mathers LP to tell me to study
It'll help me get back to myself and she'll love me (Ooouuu)
I mailed the bitch back and said if I did that
I'd just be like everyone else in the fucking industry
Especially an effing Recovery clone of me (NFing)
So finger-bang, chicken wang, MGK, Igg' Azae'
Lil Pump, Lil Xan imitate Lil Wayne
I should aim at everybody in the game, pick a name
I'm fed up with bein' humble
And rumor is I'm hungry, I'm sure you heard rumblings
I heard you wanna rumble like an empty stomach
I heard your mumblin' but it's jumbled in mumbo-jumbo
The era that I'm from will pummel you, that's what it's comin' to
What the fuck you're gonna do when you run into it?
I'm gonna crumble you and I'll take a number two
And dump on you, if you ain't Joyner
If you ain't Kendrick or Cole or Sean, then you're a goner
I'm 'bout to bring it to anyone in this bitch who want it
I guess when you walk into BK you expect a Whopper
You can order a Quarter Pounder when you go to McDonald's
But if you're lookin' to get a porterhouse you better go get Revival
But y'all are actin' like I tried to serve you up a slider
Maybe the vocals shoulda been auto-tuned
And you woulda bought it
But sayin' I no longer got it
'Cause you missed a line and never caught it
'Cause it went over your head, because you're too stupid to get it
'Cause you're mentally retarded, but pretend to be the smartest
With your expertise and knowledge, but you'll never be an artist
And I'm harder on myself than you could ever be regardless
What I'll never be is flawless, all I'll ever be is honest (Illa, Illa, Illa)
Even when I'm gone they're gonna say I brought it
Even when I hit my forties like a fuckin' alcoholic
With a bottle full of malt liquor
But I couldn't bottle this shit any longer
The fact that I know that I'ma hit my bottom
If I don't pull myself from the jaws of defeat and rise to my feet
I don't see why y'all even started with me
I get in beefs, my enemies die
I don't cease fire 'til at least all are deceased
I'm east side, never be caught slippin'
Now you see why I don't sleep, not even a wink, I don't blink
I don't doze off, I don't even nod to the beats
I don't even close my fuckin' eyes when I sneeze
"Aw, man! That BET cypher was weak, it was garbage
The Thing ain't even orange—oh my God, that's a reach!"
Shout to all my colorblind people
Each and everyone of y'all, if you call a fire engine green
Aquamarine, or you think water is pink
"Dawg, that's a date" — "Looks like an olive to me"
"Look, there's an apple!" — "No, it's not, it's a peach!"
So finger-bang, Pootie Tang
Burger King, Gucci Gang, dookie, dang
Charlamagne gonna hate anyway, doesn't matter what I say
Give me Donkey of the Day
What a way for 2018 to get underway
But I'm gonna say everything that I wanna say
Welcome to the slaughterhouse, bitch! (Yeah)
Invite 'em in like a One A Day
I'm not done (Preach!)
'Cause I feel like the beast of burden
That line in the sand, was it even worth it?
'Cause the way I see people turning's
Makin' it seem worthless, it's startin' to defeat the purpose
I'm watchin' my fan base shrink to thirds
And I was just tryin' to do the right thing, but word
Has the court of public opinion reached a verdict
Or still yet to be determined?
'Cause I'm determined to be me, critiqued or worshipped
But if I could go back, I'd at least reword it
And say I empathize with the people this evil serpent
Sold the dream to that he's deserted
But I think it's workin'
These verses are makin' him a wee bit nervous
And he's too scurred to answer me with words
'Cause he knows that he will lyrically get murdered
But I know at least he's heard it
'Cause Agent Orange just sent the Secret Service
To meet in person to see if I really think of hurtin' him
Or ask if I'm linked to terrorists
I said, "Only when it comes to ink and lyricists"
But my beef is more media journalists
(Hold up, hold up, hold up)
I said, my beef is more meaty, a journalist
Can get a mouthful of flesh
And yes, I mean eating a penis
'Cause they've been pannin' my album to death
So I've been givin' the media fingers
Don't wanna turn this to a counseling sesh
But they've been puttin' me through the ringer
So I ain't ironin' shit out with the press
But I just took this beat to the cleanersSee Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like738Embed

Title: Superman
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-superman-lyrics
Song Description: Adding to Eminems collection of songs expressing his anger against ex-wife Kim Mathers, Superman contains a lot of harsh truths about the kinds of women that Eminem interacts with, partially due to his fame; however, Eminem may be trying to detail a sort of enlightenment in this song that, even though it has come as the result of suffering, he values.

The title of Superman in relation to women likely alludes to the classic situation of Superman himself saving women from dangerous situations and them being grateful to him, as well as sexually interested in him. Eminem describes himself as being the complete antithesis  I cant be your Superman  to this kind of character, preferring to leave women to solve their own problems by themselves without his help. Broadly, the song discusses the need for men in relationships to abandon women with severe personal issues and leave these women to sort out said issues on their own (and not simply swoop in to save them and solve all of their problems, like Superman himself).

Eminem does not want to play the Prince Charming-esque character so desired by women and depicts himself instead as a battle-hardened soldier aware of what women genuinely want from men in relationships (this awareness gives Eminem a reason to avoid any sort of chivalry and sacrifice for women who will not return the favour).

It is also worth noting  whether or not this is intentional  that the songs title could allude to Friedrich Nietzsches concept of the bermensch, a word which can be translated into, superman. The link can be made by likening his divorce from Kim to Nietzsches death of God, given that the divorce essentially created a void where Eminems values once were (in a sense) and which are now being called into question (hes rethinking his reasoning behind marrying Kim in the first place).

Instead of nihilistically giving up on life in the wake of this divorce, Eminem wants to construct new values by which he can live that do not mean that he will be dependent upon a woman (or, as Nietzsche would hypothesise, God) to be his source of wellbeing and meaning (and, broadly, he wants all men to aspire to this goal as well).
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Dina Rae]
Mhmmm *inhales*
You high, baby?
Yeah, hahahaha
Yeah?
Talk to me
You want me to tell you something?
Uh-huh
I know what you wanna hear

[Refrain: Eminem & Dina Rae]
'Cause I know you want me, baby, I think I want you too
I think I love you, baby, I think I love you too (Oh-ooh)
I'm here to save you, girl, come be in Shady's world (Ooh-ooh, ooh)
I wanna grow together, let's let our love unfurl
You know you want me, baby, you know I want you too
They call me Superman, I'm here to rescue you
I wanna save you, girl, come be in Shady's world (Ooh-ooh)
Oh boy, you drive me crazy, bitch, you make me hurl

[Verse 1: Eminem]
They call me Superman
Leap tall hoes in a single bound
I'm single now: got no ring on this finger now
I'd never let another chick bring me down
In a relationship; save it, bitch!
Babysit? You make me sick
Superman ain't savin' shit
Girl, you can jump on Shady's dick
Straight from the hip, cut to the chase
I tell a muhfuckin' slut to her face
Play no games, say no names
Ever since I broke up with what's-her-face
I'm a different man, kiss my ass
Kiss my lips? Bitch, why ask?
Kiss my dick, get my cash?
I'd rather have you whip my ass
Don't put out? I'll put you out
Won't get out? I'll push you out
Puss blew out, poppin' shit
Wouldn't piss on fire to put you out
Am I too nice? Buy you ice?
Bitch, if you died, wouldn't buy you life
What, you tryin' to be my new wife?
What, you Mariah? Fly through twice
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
But I do know one thing though
Bitches, they come, they go
Saturday through Sunday, Monday (Yeah-yeah)
Monday through Sunday, yo
Maybe I'll love you one day
Maybe we'll someday grow
'Til then just sit your drunk ass on that fuckin' runway, ho

[Chorus: Eminem]
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Don't get me wrong, I love these hoes
It's no secret, everybody knows
Yeah, we fucked—bitch, so what?
That's about as far as your buddy goes
We'll be friends, I'll call you again
I'll chase you around every bar you attend
Never know what kinda car I'll be in
We'll see how much you'll be partyin' then
You don't want that, neither do I
I don't wanna flip when I see you with guys
Too much pride, between you and I
Not a jealous man, but females lie
But I guess that's just what sluts do
How could it ever be just us two?
I'd never love you enough to trust you
We just met and I just fucked you
[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
But I do know one thing though
Bitches, they come, they go
Saturday through Sunday, Monday
Monday through Sunday, yo
Maybe I'll love you one day
Maybe we'll someday grow
'Til then just sit your drunk ass on that fuckin' runway, ho

[Chorus: Eminem]
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman

[Refrain: Eminem & Dina Rae]
I know you want me, baby, I think I want you too
I think I love you, baby, I think I love you too
I'm here to save you, girl, come be in Shady's world
I wanna grow together, let's let our love unfurl
You know you want me, baby, you know I want you too
They call me Superman, I'm here to rescue you
I wanna save you, girl, come be in Shady's world
Oh boy, you drive me crazy, bitch, you make me hurl
[Verse 3: Eminem]
First thing you say:
"I'm not fazed, I hang around big stars all day
I don't see what the big deal is anyway
You're just plain old Marshall to me"
Ooh, yeah, girl, run that game
"Hailie Jade, I love that name
Love that tattoo, what's that say?
'Rot In Pieces', uh, that's great"
First off, you don't know Marshall
At all, so don't grow partial
That's ammo for my arsenal
I'll slap you off that bar stool
There goes another lawsuit
Leave handprints all across you
Good Lordy, whoadie
You must be gone off that water bottle
You want what you can't have
Ooh girl, that's too damn bad
Don't touch what you can't grab
End up with two backhands
Put anthrax on a Tampax
And slap you 'til you can't stand
Girl, you just blew your chance
Don't mean to ruin your plans

[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
But I do know one thing though
Bitches, they come, they go
Saturday through Sunday, Monday
Monday through Sunday, yo
Maybe I'll love you one day
Maybe we'll someday grow
'Til then just sit your drunk ass on that fuckin' runway, ho

[Chorus: Eminem]
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman

[Refrain: Eminem & Dina Rae]
I know you want me, baby, I think I want you too
I think I love you, baby, I think I love you too
I'm here to save you, girl, come be in Shady's world
I wanna grow together, let's let our love unfurl
You know you want me, baby, you know I want you too
They call me Superman, I'm here to rescue you
I wanna save you, girl, come be in Shady's world
Oh boy, you drive me crazy, bitch, you make me hurl

[Chorus: Eminem]
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman
'Cause I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
I can't be your Superman, can't be your Superman
Can't be your Superman, your Superman, your Superman184Embed

Title: ’Till I Collapse
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-till-i-collapse-lyrics
Song Description: On the self-produced Till I Collapse, Eminem demonstrates his status as a rap superstar and explains what gives him the strength to continue on his path. He also addresses the US rap scene and the critics of his music.

The drums of the song are taken almost directly from Queens anthem We Will Rock You.

The song from his album The Eminem Show was never released as a single, but nevertheless developed into one of the most successful songs of his career. It charted on various subsequent Eminem album releases and was the first non-single to reach one billion streams on Spotify. Additionally, it was awarded 5x platinum by the RIAA and also achieved gold and platinum awards in numerous other countries.

In 2011, the track was used in the soundtrack of the movie Real Steel, which also resulted in an unofficial music video on YouTube.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
(Yo, left, yo, left) 'Cause sometimes you just feel tired
(Yo, left, right, left) Feel weak, and when you feel weak
(Yo, left, yo, left) You feel like you wanna just give up
(Yo, left, right, left) But you gotta search within you
(Yo, left, yo, left) Try to find that inner strength and just pull that shit out of you
(Yo, left, right, left) And get that motivation to not give up
(Yo, left, yo, left) And not be a quitter
(Yo, left, right, left) No matter how bad you wanna just fall flat on your face and collapse

[Verse 1: Eminem]
'Til I collapse, I'm spillin' these raps long as you feel 'em
'Til the day that I drop, you'll never say that I'm not killin' 'em
'Cause when I am not, then I'ma stop pennin' 'em
And I am not hip-hop and I'm just not Eminem
Subliminal thoughts, when I'ma stop sendin' 'em?
Women are caught in webs, spin 'em and hock venom
Adrenaline shots of penicillin could not get the illin' to stop
Amoxicillin's just not real enough
The criminal, cop-killin', hip-hop villain
A minimal swap to cop millions of Pac listeners
You're comin' with me, feel it or not
You're gonna fear it like I showed ya the spirit of God lives in us
You hear it a lot, lyrics to shock
Is it a miracle or am I just product of pop fizzin' up?
Fa' shizzle, my wizzle, this is the plot, listen up
You bizzles forgot, Slizzle does not give a fuck
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Nate Dogg & Eminem]
'Til the roof comes off, 'til the lights go out
'Til my legs give out, can't shut my mouth
'Til the smoke clears out, am I high? Perhaps
I'ma rip this shit 'til my bones collapse
'Til the roof comes off, 'til the lights go out ('Til the roof, until the roof)
'Til my legs give out, can't shut my mouth (The roof comes off, the roof comes off)
'Til the smoke clears out, am I high? Perhaps ('Til my legs, until my legs)
I'ma rip this shit 'til my bones collapse (Give out from underneath me)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Music is like magic, there's a certain feelin' you get
When you real and you spit, and people are feelin' your shit
This is your moment, and every single minute you spend
Tryna hold on to it, 'cause you may never get it again
So while you're in it, try to get as much shit as you can
And when your run is over, just admit when it's at its end
'Cause I'm at the end of my wits with half the shit that gets in
I got a list, here's the order of my list that it's in
It goes: Reggie, JAY-Z, 2Pac and Biggie
André from OutKast, Jada, Kurupt, Nas, and then me
But in this industry I'm the cause of a lot of envy
So when I'm not put on this list, the shit does not offend me
That's why you see me walk around like nothing's botherin' me
Even though half you people got a fuckin' problem with me
You hate it, but you know respect you got to give me
The press's wet dream, like Bobby and Whitney—Nate, hit me!
[Chorus: Nate Dogg & Eminem]
'Til the roof comes off, 'til the lights go out
'Til my legs give out, can't shut my mouth
'Til the smoke clears out, am I high? Perhaps
I'ma rip this shit 'til my bones collapse
'Til the roof comes off, 'til the lights go out ('Til the roof, until the roof)
'Til my legs give out, can't shut my mouth (The roof comes off, the roof comes off)
'Til the smoke clears out, am I high? Perhaps ('Til my legs, until my legs)
I'ma rip this shit 'til my bones collapse (Give out from underneath me)

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Soon as a verse starts, I eat at an MC's heart
What is he thinking? How not to go against me, smart
And it's absurd how people hang on every word
I'll prob'ly never get the props I feel I ever deserve
But I'll never be served, my spot is forever reserved
If I ever leave Earth, that would be the death of me first
'Cause in my heart of hearts I know nothin' could ever be worse
That's why I'm clever when I put together every verse
My thoughts are sporadic, I act like I'm an addict
I rap like I'm addicted to smack like I'm Kim Mathers
But I don't wanna go forth and back in constant battles
The fact is I would rather sit back and bomb some rappers
So this is like a full-blown attack I'm launchin' at 'em
The track is on some battlin' raps, who wants some static?
'Cause I don't really think that the fact that I'm Slim matters
A plaque and platinum status is wack if I'm not the baddest, so
[Chorus: Nate Dogg & Eminem]
'Til the roof comes off, 'til the lights go out
'Til my legs give out, can't shut my mouth
'Til the smoke clears out, am I high? Perhaps
I'ma rip this shit 'til my bones collapse
'Til the roof comes off, 'til the lights go out ('Til the roof, until the roof)
'Til my legs give out, can't shut my mouth (The roof comes off, the roof comes off)
'Til the smoke clears out, am I high? Perhaps ('Til my legs, until my legs)
I'ma rip this shit 'til my bones collapse (Give out from underneath me)

[Outro: Eminem, Nate Dogg & Eminem & Nate Dogg]
Until the roof, until the roof
The roof comes off, the roof comes off
Until my legs, until my legs
Give out from underneath me, I
I will not fall, I will stand tall
Feels like no one can beat me544Embed

Title: Love the Way You Lie
Release Date: June 18, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-love-the-way-you-lie-lyrics
Song Description: This smash hit saw Eminem and Rihanna reflect on their ambivalent and abusive relationships with their respective ex-partners Kim & Chris Brown.

Skylar Grey wrote the tracks chorus in under fifteen minutes about her abusive relationship with the music industry. She recorded it herself for Alex Da Kids demo, which was eventually heard by Eminem who liked the beat and her chorus.

He wrote his verses and reached out to Rihanna, asking her to sing the chorus as she, like him, had experienced an abusive relationship, and he felt the song would resonate and connect with her.

Later that year, Eminem and Rihanna recorded a sequel to the song, entitled Love the Way You Lie (Pt. II), which was narrated primarily from Rihannas perspective.

Love the Way You Lie is Eminems biggest-selling single ever, with over 12 million copies sold in the US alone. The track also went 14x Platinum in Australia and was the UKs best-selling song for 2010. It is also one of the most viewed YouTube videos of all time, with 2.28 billion views as of September 2021.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Rihanna]
Just gonna stand there and watch me burn?
Well, that's all right because I like the way it hurts
Just gonna stand there and hear me cry?
Well, that's all right because I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I can't tell you what it really is, I can only tell you what it feels like
And right now, there's a steel knife in my windpipe
I can't breathe, but I still fight while I can fight
As long as the wrong feels right, it's like I'm in flight
High off her love, drunk from her hate
It's like I'm huffin' paint and I love her, the more I suffer, I suffocate
And right before I'm about to drown, she resuscitates me
She fuckin' hates me, and I love it — "Wait!
Where you going?" — "I'm leaving you!" — "No, you ain't!
Come back!" — We're runnin' right back, here we go again
It's so insane, 'cause when it's goin' good, it's goin' great
I'm Superman with the wind at his back, she's Lois Lane
But when it's bad, it's awful, I feel so ashamed
I snapped, "Who's that dude?", I don't even know his name
I laid hands on her, I'll never stoop so low again
I guess I don't know my own strength

[Chorus: Rihanna]
Just gonna stand there and watch me burn?
Well, that's all right because I like the way it hurts
Just gonna stand there and hear me cry?
Well, that's all right because I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
You ever love somebody so much you can barely breathe when you're with 'em?
You meet, and neither one of you even know what hit 'em
Got that warm fuzzy feelin', yeah, them chills, used to get 'em
Now you're gettin' fuckin' sick of lookin' at 'em?
You swore you'd never hit 'em, never do nothin' to hurt 'em
Now you're in each other's face
Spewin' venom in your words when you spit 'em
You push, pull each other's hair, scratch, claw, bit 'em
Throw 'em down, pin 'em
So lost in the moments when you're in 'em
It's the rage that took over, it controls you both
So they say you're best to go your separate ways
Guess that they don't know ya
'Cause today, that was yesterday, yesterday is over
It's a different day, sound like broken records playin' over
But you promised her, next time you'll show restraint
You don't get another chance, life is no Nintendo game
But you lied again
Now you get to watch her leave out the window
Guess that's why they call it window pane
[Chorus: Rihanna]
Just gonna stand there and watch me burn?
Well, that's all right because I like the way it hurts
Just gonna stand there and hear me cry?
Well, that's all right because I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie
[Verse 3: Eminem]
Now, I know we said things, did things that we didn't mean
Then we fall back into the same patterns, same routine
But your temper's just as bad as mine is, you're the same as me
When it comes to love, you're just as blinded, baby, please
Come back, it wasn't you, baby, it was me
Maybe our relationship isn't as crazy as it seems
Maybe that's what happens when a tornado meets a volcano
All I know is I love you too much to walk away though
Come inside, pick up your bags off the sidewalk
Don't you hear sincerity in my voice when I talk?
Told you this is my fault, look me in the eyeball
Next time I'm pissed, I'll aim my fist at the drywall
Next time? There won't be no next time!
I apologize, even though I know it's lies
I'm tired of the games, I just want her back, I know I'm a liar
If she ever tries to fuckin' leave again, I'ma tie her
To the bed and set this house on fire, just gonna—
[Chorus: Rihanna & Eminem]
Just gonna stand there and watch me burn?
Well, that's all right because I like the way it hurts
Just gonna stand there and hear me cry?
Well, that's all right because I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie
I love the way you lie306Embed

Title: Venom
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-venom-lyrics
Song Description: Venom is the main theme of the soundtrack for the 2018 Columbia Pictures movie Venom based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name.

The movies main character is a sentient alien Symbiote with liquid-like form, who requires a host to survive. The Symbiote bestows its powers upon the host, and the new dual-life form usually refers to itself as Venom.

The music video for Fall includes several references to the Marvel character. Em is being chased by a liquid shadow, who ends up possessing him, and his eyes become entirely black. All of this, one can also see happening to Eddie Brock when he gets possessed and becomes Venom in the movie.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xLCn88bfW1o
Lyrics:

[Intro]
I got a song filled with shit for the strong-willed
When the world gives you a raw deal
Sets you off 'til you scream, "Piss off! Screw you!"
When it talks to you like you don't belong
Or tells you you're in the wrong field
When something's in your mitochondrial
'Cause it latched on to you, like—

[Verse 1]
Knock knock, let the devil in
Manevolent as I've ever been, head is spinnin'
This medicine's screamin', "L-L-L-Let us in!"
L-L-L-Like a salad bowl, Edgar Allan Poe
Bedridden, shoulda been dead a long time ago
Liquid Tylenol, gelatins, think my skeleton's meltin'
Wicked, I get all high when I think I've smelled the scent
Of elephant manure—hell, I meant Kahlúa
Screw it, to hell with it, I went through hell with accelerants
And blew up my-my-myself again
Volkswagen, tailspin, bucket matches my pale skin
Mayo and went from Hellmann's and being rail thin
Filet-o-Fish, Scribble Jam, Rap Olympics '97 Freaknik
How can I be down? Me and Bizarre in Florida
Proof's room slept on the floor of 'da motel then
Dr. Dre said, "Hell yeah!"
And I got his stamp like a postcard, word to Mel-Man
And I know they're gonna hate
But I don't care, I barely can wait
To hit 'em with the snare and the bass
Square in the face, this fuckin' world better prepare to get laced
Because they're gonna taste my—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Venom, (I got that) adrenaline momentum
And I'm not knowin' when I'm
Ever gonna slow up and I'm
Ready to snap any moment I'm
Thinkin' it's time to go get 'em
They ain't gonna know what hit 'em
(W-W-When they get bit with the—)
Venom, (I got that) adrenaline momentum
And I'm not knowin' when I'm
Ever gonna slow up and I'm
Ready to snap any moment I'm
Thinkin' it's time to go get 'em
They ain't gonna know what hit 'em
(W-W-When they get bit with the—)

[Verse 2]
I said knock knock, let the devil in
Shotgun p-p-pellets in the felt pen
Cocked, fuck around and catch a hot one
It-it's evident I'm not done
V-Venomous, the thoughts spun
Like a web and you just caught in 'em
Held against your will like a hubcap or mud flap
Beat strangler attack
So this ain't gonna feel like a love tap
Eat painkiller pills, fuck up the track
Like, what's her name's at the wheel? Danica Patrick
Threw the car into reverse at the Indy, a nut crashin'
Into ya, the back of it just mangled steel
My Mustang and the Jeep Wrangler grill
With the front smashed, much as my rear fender, assassin
Slim be a combination of an actual kamikaze and Gandhi (Gandhi)
Translation, I will probably kill us both
When I end up backin' into ya
You ain't gonna be able to tell what the fuck's happenin' to ya
When you're bit with the—
[Chorus]
Venom, adrenaline momentum
And I'm not knowin' when I'm
Ever gonna slow up and I'm
Ready to snap any moment I'm
Thinkin' it's time to go get 'em
They ain't gonna know what hit 'em
(W-W-When they get bit with the—)
Venom, (I got that) adrenaline momentum
And I'm not knowin' when I'm
Ever gonna slow up and I'm
Ready to snap any moment I'm
Thinkin' it's time to go get 'em
They ain't gonna know what hit 'em
(W-W-When they get bit with the—)

[Verse 3]
I said knock knock, let the devil in
Alien, E-E-Elliott phone home
Ain't no telling when this chokehold
On this game will end, I'm loco
Became a Symbiote, so
My fangs are in your throat, ho
You're snake-bitten with my—venom
With the ballpoint pen I'm
Gun cocked, bump stock, double-aught, buckshot
Tire thumper, a garrote, tie a couple knots
Fired up and caught fire, juggernaut
Punk rock, bitch, it's goin' down like Yung Joc
'Cause the Doc put me on like sunblock
Why the fuck not, you only get one shot
Ate shit 'til I can't taste it
Chased it with straight liquor
Then paint thinner, then drank 'til I faint
And awake with a headache
And I take anything in rectangular shape
Then I wait to face the demons I'm bonded to
'Cause they're chasin' me but I'm part of you
So escapin' me is impossible
I latch onto you like a—parasite
And I probably ruined your parents' life
And your childhood too
'Cause if I'm the music that y'all grew up on
I'm responsible for you retarded fools
I'm the super villain Dad and Mom was losin' their marbles to
You marvel that? Eddie Brock is you
And I'm the suit, so call me—
[Chorus]
Venom, (I got that) adrenaline momentum
And I'm not knowin' when I'm
Ever gonna slow up and I'm
Ready to snap any moment I'm
Thinkin' it's time to go get 'em
They ain't gonna know what hit 'em
(W-W-When they get bit with the—)
Venom, (I got that) adrenaline momentum
And I'm not knowin' when I'm
Ever gonna slow up and I'm
Ready to snap any moment I'm
Thinkin' it's time to go get 'em
They ain't gonna know what hit 'em
(W-W-When they get bit with the—)

Title: River
Release Date: December 15, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-river-lyrics
Song Description: River details the struggles of a failing relationship that culminates in an abortion. The story initially depicts a man who has been cheating on his girlfriend. The girl finds out about his infidelity, and, she seeks revenge by cheating on him with Eminem. Em knows he is getting used, yet he persists anyways in order to fill the romantic void in his heart.

After the man finds out what his girlfriend has been doing, he ends up leaving her at the same time as Eminem has lost interest in her. Ems struggles come to fruition as soon as he realizes the woman is pregnant by him. His selfish actions cause the destruction of the girls relationship and the abortion of her unborn child.

Ed Sheeranwho collaborates with Eminem for the first timesings a powerful chorus of a remorseful man who wants to be washed from his sins.

The river most likely symbolizes the Jordan River, as John The Baptist used its water to wash away peoples' sins, which can be found on Matthew 3:1-12:

People went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea and the whole region of the Jordan. 6 Confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River.

The river could also symbolize The Nile River, as the Pharaoh would order his people to keep one girl for every boy they threw in the river, which can be found on Exodus 1:20-22:

Then Pharaoh gave this order to all his people: Every Hebrew boy that is born you must throw into the Nile, but let every girl live.

This could possibly signify Eminem as the Pharaoh, as he wants to kill the unborn child, but hes in denial. This ties in to the fact that he mentions swimming in that river to signify his repentance, as he mentioned on Need Me:

Im swimmin' in that Egyptian river, cause Im in denial

On February 14th, 2018, Eminem released a cinematic music video for the song, which features interviews of Marshall, Suzanne, and her boyfriend, Trevor.  Em explains that this song was something [he] needed to get off [his] chest.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Ed Sheeran]
I've been a liar, been a thief
Been a lover, been a cheat
All my sins need holy water, feel it washing over me
Well, little one, I don't want to admit to something
If all it's gonna cause is pain
Truth and my lies right now are falling like the rain
So let the river run

[Verse 1: Eminem]
He's comin' home with his neck scratched, to catch flack
Sweat jackets and dress slacks, mismatched
On his breath's Jack, he's a sex addict
And she just wants to exact revenge and get back
It's a chess match, she's on his back like a jet-pack
She's kept track of all his Internet chats
And guess who just happens to be movin' on to the next
Actually, just shit on my last chick and she has what my ex lacks
'Cause she loves danger, psychopath
And you don't fuck with no man's girl, even I know that
But she's devised some plan to stab him in the back
Knife in hand, says their relationship's hangin' by a strand
So she's been on the web lately
Says maybe she'll be my Gwen Stacy, to spite her man
And I know she's using me to try to play him, I don't care
Hi Suzanne, but I shoulda said "Bye Suzanne"
After the first night, but tonight I am
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Ed Sheeran]
I've been a liar, been a thief
Been a lover, been a cheat
All my sins need holy water, feel it washing over me
Well, little one, I don't want to admit to something
If all it's gonna cause is pain
The truth and my lies now are falling like the rain
So let the river run

[Verse 2: Eminem]
A one-night stand turned a two-night stand
It was "come sunlight, scram," now we hug tight, and...
He found out, now she feels deserted and used
'Cause he left, so what? He did it first to her too
Now how am I supposed to tell this girl that we're through?
It's hard to find the words, I'm aloof, nervous, and Sue
Don't want this to hurt, but what you deserve is the truth
Don't take it personal, I just can't say this in person to you
So I revert to the studio, like hole-in-the-wall diners
Don't have to be reserved in a booth
I just feel like the person who I'm turning into's
Irreversible, I preyed on you like it's church at the pew
And now that I got you I don't want you
Took advantage in my thirst to pursue
Why do I do this dirt that I do?
Get on my soapbox and preach, my sermon and speech
Detergent and bleach is burnin' the wound
'Cause now with her in the womb
We can't bring her in this world, shoulda knew
To use protection 'fore I bit into your forbidden fruit
Fuck!
[Chorus: Ed Sheeran]
I've been a liar, been a thief
Been a lover, been a cheat
All my sins need holy water, feel it washing over me
Well, little one, I don't want to admit to something
If all it's gonna cause is pain
The truth and my lies now are falling like the rain
So let the river run

[Bridge: Eminem & Ed Sheeran]
My name's (Ooh), my name's (Ooh)
River (Ooh), river run
Call me (Ooh), call me (Ooh)
River (Ooh), we'll let the river run

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Always the bridesmaid, never "The bride, hey!"
Fuck can I say? If life was a highway
And deceit was an enclave, I'd be swerving in five lanes
Speeds at a high rate, like I'm slidin' on ice, maybe
That's why I may have came at you sideways
I can't keep my lies straight
But I made you terminate my baby
This love triangle left us in a wreck, tangled
What else can I say? It was fun for a while
Bet I really woulda loved your smile
Didn't really wanna abort, but fuck it
What's one more lie, to tell our unborn child?
[Chorus: Ed Sheeran & Eminem]
I've been a liar, been a thief
Been a lover, been a cheat
All my sins need holy water, feel it washing over me
Well, little one (I'm sorry)
I don't want to admit to something (I fucked up)
If all it's gonna cause is pain
The truth and my lies now are falling like the rain
So let the river run485Embed

Title: 8 Mile: B-Rabbit vs Papa Doc
Release Date: September 8, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-8-mile-b-rabbit-vs-papa-doc-lyrics
Song Description: This final rap battle is the climactic point of the film. Papa Doc wins the coin toss and elects to let that bitch go first. Aware that Doc has a lot of potential material about him, Rabbit adopts the stealing thunder technique, which involves revealing the negative facts/information about yourself or a situation before it is mentioned by the opponent or other individuals. For example- in courtrooms, if the defendant admits the negative evidence against themselves FIRST, before the prosecutor gets the chance to do so, it significantly reduces the probability that the defendant would be viewed unfavorably.

If youre admitting the unfavorable details openly, it wont seem as if youre trying to cover up and hide something.

Negative information coming from YOUR mouth is not anywhere as crippling than it is coming from your challenger-



While Rabbit embraces his own past, he reveals Docs as well, revealing that not everything is how it seems.

This tactic not only intensifies your credibility, but it also takes the sting out of the negative information itself. Therefore, making the facts/information not even seem so bad (since youre willing to admit it).
Lyrics:

[Verse: Eminem (as B-Rabbit)]
Now, everybody from the 313
Put your motherfuckin' hands up and follow me!
Everybody from the 313
Put your motherfuckin' hands up! Look, look
Now, while he stands tough
Notice that this man did not have his hands up
This Free World's got you gassed up
Now, who's afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?
One, two, three, and to the four
One Pac, two Pac, three Pac, four
Four Pac, three Pac, two Pac, one
You're Pac, he's Pac, no Pac, none
This guy ain't no motherfuckin' MC
I know everything he's got to say against me
I am white, I am a fucking bum
I do live in a trailer with my mom
My boy Future is an Uncle Tom
I do got a dumb friend named Cheddar Bob
Who shoots himself in his leg with his own gun
I did get jumped by all six of you chumps
And Wink did fuck my girl
I'm still standin' here screaming, "Fuck the Free World!"
Don't ever try to judge me, dude
You don't know what the fuck I've been through
But I know something about you
You went to Cranbrook, that's a private school
What's the matter, dawg? You embarrassed?
This guy's a gangster? His real name's Clarence
And Clarence lives at home with both parents
And Clarence' parents have a real good marriage
This guy don't wanna battle, he's shook
'Cause ain't no such things as halfway crooks
He's scared to death, he's scared to look
At his fucking yearbook; fuck Cranbrook!
Fuck a beat, I'll go acappella
Fuck a Papa Doc, fuck a clock, fuck a trailer
Fuck everybody! Fuck y'all if you doubt me!
I'm a piece of fucking white trash, I say it proudly
And fuck this battle, I don't wanna win, I'm outtie
Here, tell these people something they don't know about me
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Outro: Anthony Mackie (as Papa Doc)]
Yo...

Title: Not Alike
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-not-alike-lyrics
Song Description: Not Alike continues Kamikazes main theme by dissing the mumble rappers who currently dominate the industry.

The first beat, which is produced by Tay Keith, interpolates Drake and Blocboy JBs Look Alive, which is a prime example of the common trap beats currently popular. The second beat, produced by Ronny J, is similar to many SoundCloud Rap type beats. Em also cleverly imitates Migos Bad and Boujee flow in the hook, showing how easy it is to simply recycle the same flows, and put it on any type of trap beat. Throughout is also examples of different techniques such as repeating lyric, ad-libs and mocking the most common themes in modern rap.

This song marks yet another collaboration between Em and Royce da 5'9''. Their previous joint track Caterpillar off of Royces Book of Ryan has a similar theme as this song. It also marks the second time that Royce has featured on an Eminem studio album; the previous time being on 1999s The Slim Shady LP, where he featured in Bad Meets Evil  which would become the collective name for the
remarkable rap duo.

In this song, Eminem extensively targets Cleveland rapper Machine Gun Kelly, who released a response titled Rap Devil on September 3, 2018, three days after Not Alike was released. Eleven days after Rap Devil dropped, Eminem released Killshot.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Lil Juice & Eminem]
Tay Keith, fuck these niggas up
Yeah

[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
Brain dead, eye drops
Pain meds, cyclops (Yup)
Daybed, iPod
"May-back", Maybach (Yup)
Trainwrecks, sidewalks
Payless, high-tops (Uh)
K-Fed, iHop
Playtex, icebox (Yeah)

[Chorus: Eminem]
That's how much we have in common (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Woah)
Up on this mic when we're on it (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Woo)
That's how much we have in common
We are not alike, there's nada like us on the mic (Yeah)

[Verse 1: Royce Da 5'9" & Eminem]
I don't do Jordans and Audemars
I do explosions and Molotovs
Y'all blowin' smoke as if y'all ain't washed
I blow the smoke from the car exhaust
Flyin' to a party I am not invited to, feelin' like the streets need me (What up?)
I ain't gotta dance long as my Ferrari Spider move like C Breezy
I don't gotta hire goons
I'd rather try to buy the moon and breathe freely
The sky's blue, the tires new
The Maserati white and cool like G-Eazy
Why these dudes tryna figure out
How to do a freestyle as fly as me? (Why?)
I'm confused tryna figure out
How to do Kapri Styles and Mya G (Woo!)
Everybody doin' chick joints
Prolly rob these little dudes at fist point
'Member everybody used to bite Nickel
Now everybody doin' Bitcoin
We don't got nothin' in common (No)
We don't got nothin' in common (No)
Y'all into stuff like doubled-up Styrofoam cups
On 'em uppers-and-downers (Woo)
I'm into stuff like doublin' commas
Find me a brother who's solid
To count this shit up and then bust this shit down
When the cops hit us up, we can flush this shit down
We cannot give a fuck, shit, a fuckin' colonic
Sellin' your cock and your butt for a follow or
Possible couple of dollars, you powder sniff
Now you slippin', call it a power trip, a produc' of politics
Y'all went from profit and toppin' the charts
To dropped in the park in a pile of shit
Knowledge is power, but powerless
If you've got it and you do not acknowledge it
Y'all music sound like Dr. Seuss inspired it
Hirin' strippers, prostitute retirin'
We can spit it for your advance
I'm fit to be king, you're cut out to fit in Prince pants
You niggas—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
Brain dead, eye drops
Pain meds, cyclops (Yeah)
Daybed, iPod
"May-back", Maybach (Yup)
Trainwrecks, sidewalks
Payless, high-tops (Uh)
K-Fed, iHop
Playtex, icebox (Yeah)

[Chorus: Eminem]
That's how much we have in common (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Woah)
Up on this mic when we're on it (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Woo)
That's how much we have in common
We are not alike, there's nada like us—
[Verse 2: Eminem]
You say you affiliated with murderers, killers (Ayy)
The people you run with are thuggin' (Gang)
But you just a wannabe gunner (Gang)
Like you was gonna do somethin'
Actin' like you catchin' bodies (Ayy)
And you got juice, lil' youngin', you buggin'
You ain't never even been charged in connection with battery
Bitch, you ain't plugged into nothin' (Ah)
Rap God spit lyrical bullets (Pew)
And gat's cocked, your partners better tool up
This has not to do with muscular
But have guns for sure, you better put a
Strap on, other words if you're gonna
Roll up with your (Gang!) you gon' need a arsenal
'Cause this bar is over your head
So you better⁠—*gun cock*⁠—have arms if you're gonna pull up (Skrrt)
Oh, you run the streets, huh?
Now you wanna come and fuck with me, huh?
This little cock-sucker, he must be feelin' himself
He wants to keep up his tough demeanour
So he does a feature, decides to team up with N9na (Yeah)
But next time you don't gotta use Tech N9ne
If you wanna come at me with a sub, Machine Gun
And I'm talkin' to you
But you already know who the fuck you are, Kelly
I don't use sublims and sure as fuck don't sneak-diss
But keep commenting on my daughter Hailie
I keep on telling motherfuckers
But, just in case you forgot really and need Ja memories jarred like strawberry or pineapple apricot jelly
I respond rarely, but this time Shady 'bout to sound off
Like a fuckin' cocked semi-Glock Demigod
Let me put a fuckin' silence on this little
Non-threatening blond fairy cornball takin' shots at me
You're not ready, fool, break yourself like Rock Steady Crew
Obviously, I'm not getting through
We can get it poppin' like Redenbach, lettin' off like Remy Ma
Heavy artille—ry (Yeah! Uh!), Godzilla harsh with a hard shell
With a motherfucking heart bigger than Bizarre's belly
Only time you'll ever say I lost
You'll be talkin' 'bout Fetty Wap, better call Diddy
Just to try to get me off of ya
Better hope I don't call Trick Trick
Bitch, this shit don't fly in our city
Punk, you don't disrespect OGs, R.I.P. Prodigy
Sold Dre my soul and then told him the moment he signed me
That I'd be the most hated, though made it
So that there's no shame, it's okay to own it
'Cause life is a bitch, she's a bow-legged ho
But now those days are over
I Harvey Weinstein a bathrobe hangin' open
My code name is groper, I role play with lotion
I fuck the whole world then I throw 'way the Trojan
Old lederhosen with home-made explosives
I'll blow eighty holes in you
Don't make me go in, I O. J. the flows
And I'm insult to injury, Rolaids to Goldman
I'm throat spray and Motrin, I throated Nicole
As they both there to choke and my whole blade is soakin'
A double-edge sword, it cuts both ways, I poke and
I stick and I turn in a rotating motion
Invisible with the pen, I'm at the pinnacle of sick individuals
Stick my dick and put the tip in at minimum
I'm fuckin' these syllables, I let 'em lick on my genitals
I'm a fuckin' invincible, indefensible, despicable, difficult prick
A little bit unpredictable, I spit the formidable
That you bitches fuckin' with, the original
I consider me and Nickel identical ('Dentical)—but not us
The only thing we have in common's I'm a dick and you suck
Otherwise one has nothin' to do with the other
None come close to skunk, bug, soldier
Tongue, shrub, shoulder, one month older
Sponge, mug, folder, nun, rug, holster
Lug nut, coaster, lung, jug, roaster
Young Thug poster, unplugged toaster (Yeah)
[Chorus: Eminem]
That's how much we have in common (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Woah)
Up on this mic when we're on it (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Yeah)
That's how much we have in common (Woo)
That's how much we have in common
We are not alike, there's nada like us—

[Outro: Eminem]
Man, fuck this shit
Let's go415Embed

Title: Berzerk
Release Date: August 27, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-berzerk-lyrics
Song Description: Eminems first single off MMLP2. A snippet was released during the commercials for the VMAs in order to build buzz for the album. The song gives off a golden-age vibe, as it is laced with Beastie Boys-esque production courtesy of Rick Rubin and allusions to 1990s pop culture. There are a few subtle jabs at new school rappers in the song as well.

The making-of video for Berzerk  Berzerk Explained  Behind The Scenes 1 can be watched on VEVO here.

Beat sample from The Stroke, by Billy Squier.

The single artwork is reminiscent of LL Cool Js album Radio, which Rick Rubin also did some work on. Not surprising at all of course, as Em lists LL as a notable influence.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Now this shit's about to kick off, this party looks wack
Let's take it back to straight hip-hop and start it from scratch
I'm 'bout to bloody this track up, everybody get back
That's why my pen needs a pad, 'cause my rhymes on the rag
Just like I did with addiction, I'm 'bout to kick it
Like a magician, critics I turn to crickets
Got 'em still on the fence whether to picket
But quick to get it impaled when I tell 'em, "Stick it!"
So sick, I'm looking pale—wait, that's my pigment
'Bout to go ham, ya bish, shout out to Kendrick
Let's bring it back to that vintage Slim, bitch!
The art of MCing mixed with da Vinci and MC Ren
And I don't mean Stimpy's friend, bitch
Been Public Enemy since you thought PE was gym, bitch

[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
Kick your shoes off, let your hair down
(And go berserk) All night long
Grow your beard out, just weird out
(And go berserk) All night long

[Chorus 1: Eminem & Billy Squier]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud
'Cause it's mayhem 'til the A.M
So, baby, make just like K-Fed
And let yourself go, let yourself go
Say, "Fuck it!" before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody (Go berserk)
Grab your vial, yeah
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
Guess it's just the way that I'm dressed, ain't it?
Khakis pressed, Nike shoes crispy and fresh laced
So I guess it ain't that aftershave
Or cologne that made 'em just faint
Plus I showed up with a coat fresher than wet paint
So if love is a chess game, check mate
But girl, your body's bangin', jump me in, dang, bang-bang
Yes siree 'Bob', I was thinking the same thang
So come get on this Kid's rock, baw with da baw, dang-dang
Pow-p-p-p-pow, chica, pow, chica, wow-wow
Got your gal blowin' up a valve, v-v-valve-valve
Ain't slowin' it down, throw in the towel, t-t-towel-towel
Dumb it down, I don't know how, huh-huh, how-how
At least I know that I don't know
Question is, are you bozos smart enough to feel stupid?
Hope so, now ho

[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
Kick your shoes off, let your hair down
(And go berserk) All night long
Grow your beard out, just weird out
(And go berserk) All night long

[Chorus 2: Eminem & Billy Squier]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud
'Cause it's mayhem 'til the A.M
So crank the bass up like crazy
And let yourself go, let yourself go
Say, "Fuck it!" before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody (Go berzerk)
Get your vinyls
[Scratch]

[Verse 3: Eminem]
And they say that love is powerful as cough syrup in styrofoam
All I know is I fell asleep and woke up in that Monte Carlo
With the ugly Kardashian, Lamar, oh
Sorry, yo—we done both set the bar low
Far as hard drugs are though, that's the past
But I done did enough codeine to knock Future into tomorrow
And girl, I ain't got no money to borrow
But I am tryin' to find a way to get you alone: car note
Oh, Marshall Mathers
Shithead with a potty mouth, get the bar of soap lathered
Kangol's and Carheartless Cargos
Girl, you're fixin' to get your heart broke
Don't be absurd, ma'am, you birdbrain, baby
I ain't called anybody baby since Birdman, unless you're a swallow (Ha-ha!)
Word, Rick? (Word, man, you heard)
But don't get discouraged, girl
This is your jam, unless you got toe jam

[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
Kick your shoes off, let your hair down
(And go berserk) All night long
Grow your beard out, just weird out
(And go berserk) All night long
[Chorus 1: Eminem & Billy Squier]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud
'Cause it's mayhem 'til the A.M
So, baby, make just like K-Fed
And let yourself go, let yourself go
Say, "Fuck it!" before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody (Go berserk)
Grab your vial, yeah

[Chorus 2: Eminem & Billy Squier]
We're gonna rock this house until we knock it down
So turn the volume loud
'Cause it's mayhem 'til the A.M
So crank the bass up like crazy
And let yourself go, let yourself go
Say, "Fuck it!" before we kick the bucket
Life's too short to not go for broke
So everybody, everybody (Go berzerk)
Get your vials456Embed

Title: Fall
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-fall-lyrics
Song Description: Fall continues Kamikazes main theme of criticizing the current state of the rap game while also responding to critics of his then-previous album, Revival, which wasand remainshis worst received solo album. Eminem most notably mentions Tyler, The Creator, Lord Jamar, and former collaborator Joe Budden.

Fall and Kamikaze were initially inversely mistitled on streaming services, but the error was quickly rectified.

The line in which Em calls Tyler, The Creator a faggot (despite being censored in both the clean and explicit versions of the song) was met with massive controversy. Justin Vernon, who provides additional vocals on the track, also expressed his distaste with the tracks message, adding that he was not in the studio when Em recorded the song.

https://twitter.com/blobtower/status/1035561538701156352

On September 4, 2018, Em released the songs music video.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Justin Vernon]
(Photoshoot!)
You know, everybody's been tellin' me
What they think about me for the last few months
It's too loud
Maybe it's time I tell 'em what I think about them
Can't hear it coming down the hallway stairs from the parking lot
It's too loud
Three's not a crowd all up in it
Slow fire
[Chorus: Justin Vernon]
Don't fall on my face
Don't fall on my faith, oh
Don't fall on my fate
Don't fall on my faith, oh
Don't fall on my fate
Don't fall on my–

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Gotta concentrate, against the clock I race
Got no time to waste, I'm already late, I got a marathoner's pace
Went from addict to a workaholic, word to Dr. Dre
In that first marijuana tape—guess I got a chronic case (Yeah)
And I ain't just blowin' smoke, 'less it's in your mama's face
I know this time Paul and Dre
They won't tell me what not to say (Nope!)
And though me and my party days
Have all pretty much parted ways
You'd swear to God I forgot I'm the guy that made "Not Afraid" (Yah)
One last time for Charlamagne
If my response is late, it's just how long it takes
To hit my fuckin' radar, I'm so far away (Woo)
These rappers are like Hunger Games
One minute, they're mockin' JAY (Yeah)
Next minute, they get their style from Migos or they copy Drake
Maybe I just don't know when to turn around and walk away
But all the hate, I call it Walk-on-Water-Gate
I've had as much as I can tolerate
I'm sick and tired of waitin', I done lost my patience
I can take all of you motherfuckers on at once (Yeah!)
You wanted Shady? You got him!
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Justin Vernon & Eminem]
Don't fall on my face (Yeah)
Don't fall on my faith, oh
Don't fall on my fate (Line 'em up!)
Don't fall on my faith, oh (Rrr!)
Don't fall on my fate (Ha)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Somebody tell Budden before I snap, he better fasten it
Or have his body bag get zipped
The closest thing he's had to hits is smackin' bitches (Pump it up!)
And don't make me have to give it back to Akademiks
Say this shit is trash again, I'll have you twisted
Like you had it when you thought you had me slippin' at the telly (Yeah)
Even when I'm gettin' brain, you'll never catch me with a thot
Lacking with it, "He ain't spittin' like this on his last shit"
Ho, you better go back and listen
You know me better, thinkin' I'll slow or let up
Call it trap 'cause it's a total setup
Hopin' that you rappers fall in that
Dre said, "Hold your head up!" (Huh?)—Kathy Griffin
Stackin' ammunition, slap the clip in, cock it back on competition
This is how I shot ahead (Pew)—Gabby Gifford
My attack is vicious, Jack the Ripper, back in business
Tyler create nothin', I see why you called yourself a ******, bitch
It's not just 'cause you lack attention
It's because you worship D12's balls, you're sack-religious
If you're gonna critique me
You better at least be as good or better
Get Earl the Hooded Sweater
Whatever his name is to help you put together
Some words, more than just two letters
The fans waited for this moment like that feature
When I stole the show (Ha), sorry if I took forever (Haha)
[Chorus: Justin Vernon & Eminem]
Don't fall on my face (Yeah)
Don't fall on my faith, oh (I won't)
Don't fall on my fate (Line 'em up!)
Don't fall on my faith, oh (Haha)
Don't fall on my fate (It's too easy)

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Just remember, I was here before you
And I'll be here after you make your run-in for you
Detractors, I'ma have to fuck Pitchfork with a corkscrew (Ah!)
Just what the doctor ordered
Revenge is the best medicine (Yeah)
Increase the dose, from least to most
And then tell the Grammys to go and fuck themselves
They suck the blood from all the biggest artists like some leeches
So they nominate 'em, get 'em there, get a name to MC the show
Every parasite needs a host (Ha-ha)
Then give Album of the Year to somebody that no one's ever even heard of
All I know is I wrote every single word of everything I ever murdered
Time to separate the sheep from goats (Yeah)
And I got no faith in your writers, I don't believe in ghosts
When rap needed it most, I was that wing and a prayer (Huh)
A beacon of hope, put a B-I-R-D in the air
Somewhere some kid is bumpin' this while he lip-syncs in the mirror
That's who I'm doin' it for, the rest, I don't really even care
But you would think I'm carryin' a Oxford dictionary in my pocket
How I'm buryin' these artists
On a scale of 'turnt' you're 'minus'
Mine says 'very', yours says 'hardly'
And what's scary is you prob'ly can compare me to your car 'cause I'm just barely gettin' started (Woo)
And far as Lord Jamar, you better leave me the Hell alone
Or I'll show you an Elvis clone
Walk up in this house you own, thrust my pelvic bone
Use your telephone and go fetch me the remote
Put my feet up and just make myself at home (Yeah)
I belong here, clown! Don't tell me 'bout the culture!
I inspired the Hopsins, the Logics, the Coles, the
Seans, the K-Dots, the 5'9"s, and oh
Brought the world 50 Cent, you did squat, piss and moan
But I'm not gonna fall, bitch! (Yeah)
[Outro: Justin Vernon]
It's too loud
Can't hear it coming down the hallway stairs from the parking lot
It's too loud
Three’s not a crowd all up in it
Slow fire329Embed

Title: Cleanin’ Out My Closet
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-cleanin-out-my-closet-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem raps about his father abandoning him as a child, his turbulent affair with his ex-wife Kim, and his irreparably damaged relationship with his mother Debbie.

For an update on Ems relationship with his mother, check Headlights from his 2013 album The Marshall Mathers LP2:

But Im sorry, Mama, for Cleanin' Out My Closet
At the time I was angry, rightfully? Maybe so
Never meant that far to take it, though
Cause now I know its not your fault and Im not making jokes
That song I no longer play at shows and I cringe every time its on the radio

Also for an update on his relationship with Kim, check out Bad Husband from his 2017 album Revival.



In 2015, D12 member Kuniva stated that this songs instrumental was originally going to be used for D12s debut studio album Devils Night. In 2020, Eminem recalled that he made the beat in the studio with D12 member Bizarre, with the intention of Bizarre using it. Through their recollections, it appears that Bizarre wanted to go in an extreme direction with the song, and when he received pushback from his D12 crew, he abandoned it, leaving it available for Eminem to work with.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Where's my snare?
I have no snare in my headphones
There you go
Yeah
Yo, yo

[Verse 1]
Have you ever been hated or discriminated against?
I have, I been protested and demonstrated against
Picket signs for my wicked rhymes, look at the times
Sick is the mind of the motherfuckin' kid that's behind
All this commotion, emotions run deep as oceans, explodin'
Tempers flarin' from parents, just blow 'em off and keep goin'
Not takin' nothin' from no one, give 'em hell long as I'm breathin'
Keep kickin' ass in the morning and takin' names in the evenin'
Leave 'em with a taste as sour as vinegar in they mouth
See, they can trigger me, but they'll never figure me out
Look at me now! I bet you're prolly sick of me now
Ain't you, Mama? I'ma make you look so ridiculous now!
[Chorus]
I'm sorry, Mama
I never meant to hurt you
I never meant to make you cry
But tonight I'm cleanin' out my closet (One more time!)
I said I'm sorry, Mama
I never meant to hurt you
I never meant to make you cry
But tonight I'm cleanin' out my closet (Ha!)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
I got some skeletons in my closet and I don't know if no one knows it
So before they throw me inside my coffin and close it
I'ma expose it; I'll take you back to '73
Before I ever had a multi-platinum-selling CD
I was a baby, maybe I was just a couple of months
My faggot father must've had his panties up in a bunch
'Cause he split, I wonder if he even kissed me goodbye
No, I don't, on second thought, I just fuckin' wished he would die
I look at Hailie, and I couldn't picture leavin' her side
Even if I hated Kim, I'd grit my teeth and I'd try
To make it work with her at least for Hailie's sake, I maybe made some mistakes
But I'm only human, but I'm man enough to face 'em today
What I did was stupid, no doubt it was dumb
But the smartest shit I did was take the bullets out of that gun
'Cause I'da killed 'em, shit, I woulda shot Kim and him both
It's my life, I'd like to welcome y'all to The Eminem Show
[Chorus]
I'm sorry, Mama
I never meant to hurt you
I never meant to make you cry
But tonight I'm cleanin' out my closet (One more time!)
I said I'm sorry, Mama
I never meant to hurt you
I never meant to make you cry
But tonight I'm cleanin' out my closet (Uh)
[Verse 3]
Now, I would never diss my own mama just to get recognition
Take a second to listen 'fore you think this record is dissin'
But put yourself in my position, just try to envision
Witnessin' your mama poppin' prescription pills in the kitchen
Bitchin' that someone's always goin' through her purse and shit's missin'
Goin' through public housing systems, victim of Münchausen's Syndrome
My whole life I was made to believe I was sick when I wasn't
'Til I grew up, now I blew up, it makes you sick to your stomach, doesn't it?
Wasn't it the reason you made that CD for me, Ma?
So you could try to justify the way you treated me, Ma?
But guess what, you're gettin' older now, and it's cold when you're lonely
And Nathan's growin' up so quick, he's gonna know that you're phony
And Hailie's gettin' so big now, you should see her, she's beautiful
But you'll never see her, she won't even be at your funeral (Ha-ha!)
See, what hurts me the most is you won't admit you was wrong
Bitch, do your song, keep tellin' yourself that you was a mom!
But how dare you try to take what you didn't help me to get?!
You selfish bitch, I hope you fuckin' burn in hell for this shit!
Remember when Ronnie died and you said you wished it was me? (Hehe)
Well, guess what? I am dead—dead to you as can be!
[Chorus]
I'm sorry, Mama
I never meant to hurt you
I never meant to make you cry
But tonight I'm cleanin' out my closet (One more time!)
I said I'm sorry, Mama
I never meant to hurt you
I never meant to make you cry
But tonight I'm cleanin' out my closet231Embed

Title: Beautiful
Release Date: May 15, 2009, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-beautiful-lyrics
Song Description: Considered by both fans and critics as the strongest song on Relapse. This song had begun to be written while sitting in rehab.

Via MTV:

Theres only one song on the record that I produced. Its a track called Beautiful, [Eminem] said in [Vibes June 2009] issue. And one of the only reasons that I put that track on there is that I feel like its the best song out of that batch that I did when I wasnt sober. At the time I felt like, This is it for me. I wrote the first verse and a half in rehab, and when I came out, I finished it. It was the only song that marks that period without bringing me back to that place. Every other track not only didnt fit with the album, but when I listened to it, it would bring up bad memories.

At its core, this is a song about depression, but by the end of the track, Eminem expresses optimism and hope for the future.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Paul Rodgers]
Lately I've been hard to reach
I've been too long on my own
Everybody has a private world where they can be alone
Are you calling me?
Are you tryin' to get through?
Are you reaching out for me?
I'm reaching out for you

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'm just so fucking depressed
I just can't seem to get out this slump
If I could just get over this hump
But I need something to pull me out this dump
I took my bruises, took my lumps
Fell down then I got right back up
But I need that spark to get psyched back up
In order for me to pick the mic back up
I don't know how or why or when
I ended up in this position I'm in
I'm starting to feel distant again
So I decided just to pick this pen
Up and try to make an attempt
To vent, but I just can't admit
Or come to grips with the fact that
I may be done with rap, I need a new outlet
And I know some shit's so hard to swallow
But I just can't sit back and wallow
In my own sorrow, but I know one fact:
I'll be one tough act to follow
One tough act to follow
I'll be one tough act to follow
Here today, gone tomorrow
But you'd have to walk a thousand miles—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
In my shoes, just to see
What it's like to be me
I'll be you, let's trade shoes
Just to see what it'd be like to
Feel your pain, you feel mine
Go inside each other's minds
Just to see what we find
Look at shit through each other's eyes

[Chorus: Eminem]
But don't let 'em say you ain't beautiful, oh
They can all get fucked, just stay true to you, so
Don't let 'em say you ain't beautiful, oh
They can all get fucked, just stay true to you, so

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I think I'm startin' to lose my sense of humor
Everything's so tense and gloom
I almost feel like I gotta check the temperature
Of the room, just as soon as
I walk in, it's like all eyes on me
So I try to avoid any eye contact
'Cause if I do that, then it opens a door
For conversation like I want that
I'm not lookin' for extra attention
I just wanna be just like you
Blend in with the rest of the room
Maybe just point me to the closest restroom
I don't need no fuckin' man servant
Tryna follow me around and wipe my ass
Laugh at every single joke I crack
And half of 'em ain't even funny, like, "Ha!
Marshall, you're so funny, man
You should be a comedian, goddamn!"
Unfortunately I am
I just hide behind the tears of a clown
So why don't you all sit down?
Listen to the tale I'm about to tell
Hell, we don't gotta trade our shoes
And you ain't gotta walk no thousand miles—
[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
In my shoes, just to see
What it's like to be me
I'll be you, let's trade shoes
Just to see what it'd be like to
Feel your pain, you feel mine
Go inside each other's minds
Just to see what we find
Look at shit through each other's eyes

[Chorus: Eminem]
But don't let 'em say you ain't beautiful, oh
They can all get fucked, just stay true to you, so
Don't let 'em say you ain't beautiful, oh
They can all get fucked, just stay true to you, so
[Verse 3: Eminem]
Nobody asked for life to deal us
With these bullshit hands we're dealt
We gotta take these cards ourselves
And flip 'em, don't expect no help
Now, I could've either just sat
On my ass and pissed and moaned
Or take this situation in which I'm placed in
And get up and get my own
I was never the type of kid
To wait by the door and pack his bags
And sat on the porch and hoped and prayed
For a dad to show up who never did
I just wanted to fit in
In every single place, every school I went
I dreamed of being that cool kid
Even if it meant actin' stupid
Aunt Edna always told me:
"Keep making that face, it'll get stuck like that."
Meanwhile, I'm just standin' there
Holdin' my tongue, tryin' to talk like this
'Til I stuck my tongue on that frozen
Stop sign pole at eight-years-old
I learned my lesson then, 'cause I wasn't
Tryin' to impress my friends no mo'
But I already told you my whole life story
Not just based on my description
'Cause where you see it from where you're sittin'
It's probably a 110% different
I guess we would have to walk a
Mile in each other's shoes at least
What size you wear? I wear 10's
Let's see if you can fit your feet—
[Pre-Chorus: Eminem]
In my shoes, just to see
What it's like to be me
I'll be you, let's trade shoes
Just to see what it'd be like to
Feel your pain, you feel mine
Go inside each other's minds
Just to see what we find
Look at shit through each other's eyes

[Chorus: Eminem]
But don't let 'em say you ain't beautiful, oh
They can all get fucked, just stay true to you, so
Don't let 'em say you ain't beautiful, oh
They can all get fucked, just stay true to you, so

[Bridge: Paul Rodgers, Eminem]
Lately I've been hard to reach
I've been too long on my own (Oh)
Everybody has a private world
Where they can be alone (So)
Are you calling me?
Are you tryin' to get through? (Oh)
Are you reaching out for me?
I'm reaching out for you (So)

[Outro: Eminem]
Yeah
To my babies:
Stay strong
Your Dad'll be home soon
And to the rest of the world:
God gave you shoes
To fit you
So put 'em on and wear 'em
Be yourself, man
Be proud of who you are
Even if it sounds corny
Don't never let no one tell you
You ain't beautiful (So-oh-oh-oh-oh)

Title: Kamikaze
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-kamikaze-lyrics
Song Description: On the albums title track, Em continues his criticism of trap and mumble rap. He also responds to the negative reception of his 2017 album Revival. In the chorus, he even compares it to FACK, which is widely regarded to be one of Ems worst songs.

Kamikaze and Fall were initially inversely mistitled on streaming services, but the error was quickly rectified.

Its also important to note that Kamikaze is Japanese for divine wind and refers to a military tactic that originated in World War II, where Japanese fighter pilots would purposefully crash into enemy fleets, committing suicide in the process. This concept is evoked on Kamikazes cover art.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
(Fack) Okay (Fack), how do I say this? (Fack)
Last year (Fack) didn't work out so well for me (Fack)
(Fack last year) (Fack) (Last year can eat a dick)
2018 (Fack), well (Fack)
Heh, yeah, I'm a fuckin' kamikaze crashin' into everything
You beat me, Islamic Nazi, that means there is no such thing
I've been goin' for your jugular since Craig G Duck Alert
Wedgie in my underwear, the whole bed sheet and the comforter

[Verse 1]
Stuck up in my rectal crack, kiss my disrespectful ass
I'll ride through your cul-de-sac
Window cracked, bumpin' your reference tracks
Y-you collaborative effort rap, I-I have never said his raps
O-overstayed my welcome
Stepped in crap and ruined your welcome mat
So spit that shit from the heart, you didn't write like you wrote it (Wrote it) (Yeah)
While I teabag the microphone 'cause I go nuts on it (Oh, yeah)
Like a fighter jet lined with explosives that'll strike any moment
Headed right at opponents, and I'm the fuckin' pilot that flown it
I'm 'bout to—

[Chorus]
Smash into everyone, crash into everything
Back and I've just begun, "FACK," 2017
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
I'm a Kamikaze, gonna
Smash into everyone, crash like an F-15
Damage already done, y'all shoulda let me be
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
I'm a Kamikaze, gonna
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
I turned to rap 'cause it made me feel tough when I wasn't (Wasn't)
From the moment I heard rappers cussin', I was in (Was in)
Which is why I identify with the guy
Who I was invented by, Dre's Frankenstein
Energized like a nine volt
Ice cold like Snake Eyes, twice in a row on a dice roll
But if the only reason I blowed is 'cause I'm white though
Why don't every other white rapper sell what I sold? (Ooh)
Kamikaze pilot, I wrote my suicide note
Here come the guys in white coats tryin' to stop me
'Fore I jump behind the controls and try to fly into foes
'Cause I'm takin' y'all with me when I go cyclone
I don't think this typhoon's letting up any time soon, here I go
Eyes closed, blindfolded, I'm 'bout to—

[Chorus]
Smash into everyone, crash into everything
Back and I've just begun, "FACK," 2017
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
I'm a Kamikaze, gonna
Smash into everyone, crash like an F-15
Damage already done, y'all shoulda let me be
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
Fack, fack on everyone
I'm a Kamikaze, gonna smash
[Interlude]
Kamikaze, kamikaze
Kami, kami-kamikaze, kamikaze, kami-kamikaze (Kamikaze)
Look at what I've done

[Verse 3]
I heard your freestyle on Shade 45, that shit was embarrassing
There is no way we ever air that shit again, I guarantee that
Wait, that shit was so ass, it's somethin' we wouldn't dare re-air it (Get it)
The shit's embarrassing as me rear-ending Tara Reid bare
In my therapy chair, my dick is the hair length of Cher
Each nut is the chair width of an Acorn, stairlift, beware of me
Lyrically I'm terrible, better get your lyrics prepared
Richard Ramirez is here, serial killin' every beat there is

[Outro]
Wait, wait, got the eeriest feelin'
Somethin' evil is lurkin', I'm no conspiracy theorist
But somethin' here is a foot, oh, yeah, it's my dick
Get the measurin' stick (What?) Twelve inches of wood (Haha)
Wait, but I've been goin' for your jugular since Craig G "Duck Alert"
And I've come to pay respects
'Cause if you sleep, you're fucked, other words
You get laid to rest and I hope your butt is hurt
Put me on a track, I go cray on it like a color book
You got some views, but you're still below me
Mine are higher, so, when you compare our views, you get overlooked
And I don't say the hook unless I wrote the hook
And now I'm just freestylin' in the vocal booth
And you know I've always spoke the truth
You're lyin' through your teeth so much, you broke a tooth
And it ain't somethin' I need a phone to do
When I say I can't wait 'til I get ahold of you
And I don't know what I'm s'posed to do
Line up the rappers, take my pic like a photo shoot223Embed

Title: Bad Guy
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-bad-guy-lyrics
Song Description: Bad Guy is a sequel to Eminems song Stan, which was released as a single from The Marshall Mathers LP. Stan is about a crazed fan who kills himself, his girlfriend and their unborn child because of the lack of attention Eminem paid to him as a fan. Bad Guy is about Stans little brother, Matthew, who loved his brother more than anything. Matthew Mitchell is all grown-up now, and is seeking revenge for Stans death.

The song also subtly references Eminems 97 Bonnie & Clyde, where he dumps his wifes dead body in a river, similarly to how Matthew executes his plan to kill him, almost powerfully echoing the notoriously controversial song.

The song includes three different voices:


First is Stans brother, rapping in an apparently misogynistic and hyper-aggressive style, just like Eminems very early work. Only after the 3rd verse this does become really apparent.
Second is a hybrid, starting at 5:12 the fictional brother becomes Eminems conscience and takes on a sinister double voice as Eminem is dying like Stan did. This portion is quite surprisingly introspective, vulnurable, and self-critical. Hes always been good at this level of honesty, but this verse is really spectacular.
The third is his own, who silences the self doubt at 6:50 and tries to explain why he, Eminem, has to keep doing what hes doing. But this voice sounds tired, it lacks the intensity and power of the first two. Soon this persona fades away, just like the second voice of doubt and conscience said that he would.



http://youtu.be/XNAvf7u6OG4?t=6m53s
Lyrics:

[Part I: Produced by S1 and M-Phazes]
[Verse 1: Eminem]
It's like I'm in the dirt, diggin' up old hurt
Tried everything to get my mind off you, it won't work
All it takes is one song on the radio, you're
Right back on it, reminding me all over again how you fuckin' just brushed me off and left me so burnt
Spent a lot of time tryna soul search
Maybe I needed to grow up a little first
Well, looks like I hit a growth spurt
But I'm coming for closure
Don't suppose an explanation I'm owed
For the way that you turned your back on me
Just when I may have needed you most
Oh, you thought it was over?
You could just close the
Chapter and go about your life like it was nothing
You ruined mine, but you seem to be doin' fine
Well, I've never recovered
But tonight, bet you that what you're
'Bout to go through's tougher than anything I ever have suffered
Can't think of a better way to define poetic justice
Can I hold grudges? Mind saying, "Let it go, fuck this!"
Heart's saying, "I will, once I bury this bitch alive
Hide the shovel and then drive off in the sunset"
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Sarah Jaffe]
I flee the scene (The scene) like it was my last ride
You see right through (Right through)
Oh, you had me pegged the first time
You can see the truth (The truth)
But it's easier to justify what's bad is good
And I hate to be the bad guy (The bad guy)
I just hate to be the bad guy (The bad guy)
Follow me (Follow me), I ruh-uh-un, follow me, I ruh-uh-un
I just hate to be the bad–

[Verse 2: Eminem]
And to think I used to think you was the shit, bitch
To think it was you at one time I worshipped? Shit
Think you can hurt people and just keep getting away with it?
Not this time, you better go and get the sewing kit, bitch
Finish this stitch, so you can reap what you sew, nitwit
Thought some time would pass and I'd forget it? Forget it
You left our family in shambles
You expect me to just get over him, pretend he never existed?
May be gone but he's not forgotten
And don't think 'cause he's been out the picture so long that I've stopped the plotting and still ain't coming to get ya
You're wrong and that shit was rotten
And the way you played him's same shit you did to me, cold
Have you any idea the shit that I've gone through?
Feelings I harbor? All this pent-up resentment I hold on to?
Not once you call to ask me how I'm doing
Letters, you don't respond to 'em
Fuck it, I'm coming to see you
And gee, who better to talk to than you?
The cause of my problems
My life is garbage, and I'm 'bout to take it out on ya
Poof, then I'm gone, voosh
[Chorus: Sarah Jaffe]
I flee the scene (The scene) like it was my last ride
You see right through (Right through)
Oh, you had me pegged the first time
You can see the truth (The truth)
But it's easier to justify what's bad is good
And I hate to be the bad guy (The bad guy)
I just hate to be the bad guy (The bad guy)
Follow me (Follow me), I ruh-uh-un, follow me, I ruh-uh-un
I just hate to be the bad guy
Follow me, I ruh-uh-un, follow me, I ruh-uh-un

[Verse 3: Eminem]
I've been drivin' around your side of this town
Like nine frickin' hours and forty-five minutes now
Finally, I found your new address, park in your drive
Feel like I've been waitin' on this moment all of my life
And it's now arrived and my mouth is full of saliva
My knife is out and I'm duckin' on the side of your house
See, it's sad it came to this point
Such a disappointment I had to make this appointment
To come and see ya, but I ain't here for your empathy
I don't need your apology or your friendship or sympathy
It's revenge that I seek
So I sneak vengefully, and treat your bedroom window
Like I reach my full potential—I peeked (Haha)
Continue to peep, still bent low, then keep
Tapping the glass lightly then start to crescendo, sneak
All the way 'round to the back porch
Man, door handles unlocked, shouldn't be that easy to do this
You don't plan for intruders beforehand?
Surprised to see me? Cat got your tongue?
Gag, chloroform rag, dag, almost hack-up a lung
Like you picked an axe up and swung, stick to the core plan
Dragged to the back of a trunk by one of your fans
Irony's spectacular, huh? Now who's a faggot, you punk?
And here's your Bronco hat, you can have that shit back 'cause they suck
It's just me, you, and the music now, Slim, I hope you hear it
We're in a car right now—wait, here comes my favorite lyric
"I'm the bad guy who makes fun of people that die"
And hey, here's a sequel to my Mathers LP just to try to get people to buy
How's this for a publicity stunt? This should be fun
Last album now 'cause after this you'll be officially done
Eminem killed by M and M, Matthew Mitchell
Bitch, I even have your initials
I initially was gonna bury you next to my brother, but fuck it
Since you're in love with your city so much, I figured, what the fuck, the best place you could be buried alive is right here
Two more exits, time is quite near
Hope we don't get stopped, no license I fear
That sirens I hear?
Guess ninety on the freeway wasn't the brightest idea
As cops appear in my driver's side mirror
(Oh, God! Police! Agh!)
Hope Foxtrot gets an aerial shot of your burial plot, at least
New plan, Stan!
Slim: "Chauvinist pig drove in this big Lincoln Town Car"
Well, gotta go, almost at the bridge
Ha ha, big bro, it's for you; Slim, this is for him
And Frank Ocean; oh, hope you can swim good
Now say you hate homos again
[Part II: Produced by StreetRunner]
[Verse 4: Eminem]
I also represent anyone on the receiving end of those jokes you offend
I'm the nightmare you fell asleep and then woke up still in
I'm your karma closin' in with each stroke of a pen
Perfect time to have some remorse to show for your sin
Nope, it's hopeless, I'm that denial that you're hopelessly in
When they say all of this is approaching its end
But you refuse to believe that it's over, here we go all over again
Back's to the wall, I'm stackin' up all them odds
Toilets clogged, yeah, 'cause I'm talkin' a lot of shit, but I'm backin' it all up
But in my head there's a voice in the back and it hollers
After the track is demolished
I am your lack of a conscience
I'm the ringing in your ears
I'm the polyps on the back of your tonsils
Eating your vocal cords after your concerts
I'm your time that's almost up that you haven't acknowledged
Grab for some water
But I'm that pill that's too jagged to swallow
I'm the bullies you hate that you became with every faggot you slaughtered comin' back on ya
Every woman you insult, batter, but the double-standard you have when it comes to your daughters
I represent everything you take for granted
'Cause Marshall Mathers, the rapper's persona
Is half a facade, and Matthew and Stan's just symbolic
Of you not knowin' what you had 'til it's gone
'Cause after all the glitz and the glam
No more fans that are calling your name
Cameras are off, sad, but it happens to all of them
I'm the hindsight to say, "I told you so"
Foreshadows of all the things that are to follow
I'm the future that's here to show you what happens tomorrow
If you don't stop after they call ya
Biggest laughing stock of rap who can't call it quits
When it's time to walk away, I'm every guilt trip
The baggage you have, but as you gather up all your possessions
If there's anything you have left to say
'Less it makes an impact then don't bother
So 'fore you rest your case better make sure you're packing a wallop (A wallop)

[Outro: Eminem]
So, one last time, I'm back
'Fore it fades into black and it's all over
Behold the final chapter in a saga
Tryna recapture that lightning trapped in a bottle
Twice, the magic that started it all
Tragic portrait of an artist tortured
Trapped in his own drawings
Tap into thoughts blacker and darker than anything imaginable;
Here goes a wild stab in the dark
Uh, as we pick up where the last Mathers left off582Embed

Title: Walk on Water
Release Date: November 10, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-walk-on-water-lyrics
Song Description: Walk on Water details the struggle Eminem endured during the later half of his career. Since his comeback in 2009, his critics have showed disinterest in Eminems presence this time around. Eminem addresses such criticism in a December 2017 interview with Complex, where he states:

I dont know, that song was more about just self-doubt, insecurities, that kind of shit. Ive never really seen myself as, how can I sayThe way Ive seen some fans act towards me. Even to this day, Ive been in this game a long time and its still weird to me, because I just rap and I certainly havent had a perfect career. Ive put out some not-so-great albums and I realize that.

The phrase Walk[ing] on water is used to express a miraculous display of power, as it originates from Matthew 14:22-33 where its told that Jesus literally walked across water to get to a boat filled with his disciples. Ironically, the phrase is used in the song to express the opposite. Though a celebrity as big as Em seemingly walks on water, he admits throughout each verse that he isnt comparable to the godlike figure people think he is.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Beyoncé & Eminem]
I walk on water
But I ain't no Jesus
I walk on water
But only when it freezes (Fuck)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Why are expectations so high? Is it the bar I set?
My arms, I stretch, but I can’t reach
A far cry from it, or it's in my grasp, but as
Soon as I grab, squeeze
I lose my grip like the flying trapeze
Into the dark I plummet, now the sky's blackening
I know the mark’s high, butter-
​flies rip apart my stomach
Knowin' that no matter what bars I come with
You're gonna harp, gripe, and
That's a hard Vicodin to swallow, so I scrap these
As pressure increases like khakis
I feel the ice cracking, because—

[Chorus: Beyoncé & Eminem]
I walk on water
But I ain't no Jesus
(It's the curse of the—, it's the curse of the—)
I walk on water (Shit)
But only when it freezes
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
It's the curse of the standard, that the first of the Mathers disc set
Always in search of the verse that I haven’t spit yet
Will this step just be another misstep
To tarnish whatever the legacy, love or respect
I’ve garnered? The rhyme has to be perfect, the delivery flawless
And it always feels like I'm hittin’ the mark
'Til I go sit in the car, listen and pick it apart
Like, "This shit is garbage"
God's given me all this, still I feel no different regardless
Kids look to me as a god, this is retarded
If only they knew, it's a facade and it’s exhaustive
And I try not to listen to nonsense
But if you bitches are tryin' to strip me of my confidence
Mission accomplished
I'm not God-sent, Nas, Rakim, 'Pac, B.I.G., James Todd Smith
And I'm not Prince, so…

[Chorus: Beyoncé & Eminem]
I walk on water
But I ain't no Jesus
I walk on water
(It's true, I'm a Rubik's—, it's true—)
But only when it freezes
(It's true—)
[Post-Chorus: Beyoncé]
'Cause I'm only human, just like you
Makin' my mistakes, oh, if you only knew
I don't think you should believe in me the way that you do
'Cause I'm terrified to let you down, oh

[Verse 3: Eminem]
It's true, I'm a Rubik's—a beautiful mess
At times juvenile, yes, I goof and I jest
A flawed human, I guess
But I'm doin' my best to not ruin your ex-
​pectations and meet 'em, but first
The "Speedom" verse, now Big Sean
He's goin' too fast, is he gonna shout or curse out his mom?
There was a time I had the world by the balls, eatin' out my palm
Every album song I was spazzin' the fuck out on
And now I'm gettin' clowned and frowned on
But the only one who's looking down on
Me that matters now's DeShaun
Am I lucky to be around this long?
Begs the question though
Especially after the methadone
As yesterday fades and the Dresden home
Is burnt to the ground and all that's left of my house is lawn
The crowds are gone
And it's time to wash out the blonde
Sales decline, the curtain's drawn
They're closin' the set, I'm still pokin' my head from out behind
And everyone who has doubt, remind
Now take your best rhyme, outdo it, now do it a thousand times
Now let 'em tell ya the world no longer cares
Or gives a fuck about your rhymes
And as I grow outta sight, outta mind, I might go outta mine
'Cause how do I ever let this mic go without a fight
When I made a fuckin' tightrope outta twine?
But when I do fall from these heights though, I'll be fine
I won't pout or cry or spiral down or whine
But I'll decide if it's my final bow this time around, 'cause—
[Chorus: Beyoncé]
I walk on water
But I ain't no Jesus
I walk on water
But only when it freezes

[Post-Chorus: Beyoncé]
'Cause I'm only human, just like you
I've been makin' my mistakes, oh, if you only knew
I don't think you should believe in me the way that you do
'Cause I'm terrified to let you down, oh
If I walked on water, I would drown

[Outro: Eminem]
'Cause I'm just a man
But as long as I got a mic, I'm godlike
So me and you are not alike
Bitch, I wrote "Stan"

Title: When I’m Gone
Release Date: December 6, 2005, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-when-im-gone-lyrics
Song Description: In When Im Gone, Eminem shares a personal story about his relationship with his daughter Hailie and how his absence is influencing her, the family and himself. Despite the nature of the song, this wasnt actually Ems last single (on his Curtain Call: The Hits compilation album) before his 2005-2009 hiatus; Shake That was.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Yeah, it's my life (Hey, Hailie)
In my own words, I guess

[Verse 1]
Have you ever loved someone so much you'd give an arm for?
Not the expression, no, literally give an arm for
When they know they're your heart and you know you are their armor
And you will destroy anyone who would try to harm her
But what happens when karma turns right around to bite you?
And everything you stand for turns on you to spite you?
What happens when you become the main source of her pain?
"Daddy, look what I made!" "Dad's gotta go catch a plane"
"Daddy, where's Mommy? I can't find Mommy, where is she?"
"I don't know, go play, Hailie, baby, your daddy's busy
Daddy's writin' a song, the song ain't gon' write itself
I'll give you one underdog, then you gotta swing by yourself"
Then turn right around on that song and tell her you love her
And put hands on her mother who's a spittin' image of her
That's Slim Shady, yeah, baby, Slim Shady's crazy
Shady made me, but tonight Shady's rock-a-bye baby, ha
[Chorus]
And when I'm gone, just carry on, don't mourn
Rejoice every time you hear the sound of my voice
Just know that I'm lookin' down on you smilin'
And I didn't feel a thing, so, baby, don't feel no pain, just smile back
And when I'm gone, just carry on, don't mourn
Rejoice every time you hear the sound of my voice
Just know that I'm lookin' down on you smilin'
And I didn't feel a thing, so, baby, don't feel no pain, just smile back
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
I keep havin' this dream, I'm pushin' Hailie on the swing
She keeps screamin' she don't want me to sing
"You're makin' Mommy cry, why? Why is Mommy cryin'?"
"Baby, Daddy ain't leavin' no more" "Daddy, you're lyin'
You always say that, you always say, 'This is the last time'
But you ain't leavin' no more, Daddy, you're mine"
She's pilin' boxes in front of the door, tryna block it
"Daddy, please! Daddy, don't leave! Daddy, no, stop it!"
Goes in her pocket, pulls out a tiny necklace locket
It's got a picture, "This'll keep you safe, Daddy, take it wit' ya"
I look up, it's just me standin' in the mirror
These fuckin' walls must be talkin' 'cause, man, I can hear 'em
They're sayin', "You got one more chance to do right, and it's tonight
Now go out there and show 'em that you love 'em 'fore it's too late"
And just as I go to walk out of my bedroom door
It turns to a stage, they're gone and the spotlight is on, and I'm singin'

[Chorus]
And when I'm gone, just carry on, don't mourn
Rejoice every time you hear the sound of my voice
Just know that I'm lookin' down on you smilin'
And I didn't feel a thing, so, baby, don't feel no pain, just smile back
And when I'm gone, just carry on, don't mourn
Rejoice every time you hear the sound of my voice
Just know that I'm lookin' down on you smilin'
And I didn't feel a thing, so, baby, don't feel no pain, just smile back
[Verse 3]
Sixty-thousand people all jumpin' out their seat
The curtain closes, they're throwin' roses at my feet
I take a bow and "Thank you all for comin' out"
They're screamin' so loud, I take one last look at the crowd
I glance down, I don't believe what I'm seein'
"Daddy, it's me! Help Mommy, her wrists are bleedin'!"
"But, baby, we're in Sweden, how did you get to Sweden?"
"I followed you, Daddy, you told me that you weren't leavin'
You lied to me, Dad, and now you made Mommy sad
And I bought you this coin, it says 'Number One Dad'
That's all I wanted, I just wanna give you this coin
I get the point, fine, me and Mommy are goin'"
"But, baby, wait!" "It's too late, Dad, you made the choice
Now go up there and show 'em that you love 'em more than us
That's what they want, they want you, Marshall, they keep
Screamin' your name, it's no wonder you can't go to sleep
Just take another pill, yeah, I bet you, you will
You rap about it, yeah, word, k-keep it real"
I hear applause, all this time I couldn't see
How could it be that the curtain is closin' on me?
I turn around, find a gun on the ground, cock it
Put it to my brain, scream, "Die, Shady!", and pop it
The sky darkens, my life flashes
The plane that I was supposed to be on crashes and burns to ashes
That's when I wake up, alarm clock's ringing, there's birds singin'
It's spring and Hailie's outside swingin'
I walk right up to Kim and kiss her, tell her I miss her
Hailie just smiles and winks at her little sister, almost as if to say
[Chorus]
And when I'm gone, just carry on, don't mourn
Rejoice every time you hear the sound of my voice
Just know that I'm lookin' down on you smilin'
And I didn't feel a thing, so, baby, don't feel no pain, just smile back
And when I'm gone, just carry on, don't mourn
Rejoice every time you hear the sound of my voice
Just know that I'm lookin' down on you smilin'
And I didn't feel a thing, so, baby, don't feel no pain, just smile back

[Outro]
*Curtains closing*

Title: The Way I Am
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-the-way-i-am-lyrics
Song Description: The second single from Eminems  Marshall Mathers LP, also featured on his 2005 album Curtain Call: The Hits

In the tradition of most of Eminems follow-up singles, The Way I Am features a much darker and emotionally driven sound than the albums lead single, The Real Slim Shady. However, The Way I Am was actually recorded before The Real Slim Shady, as a direct result of the record company putting pressure on Em to create a poppy first single for the album.

The song has also been remixed by Danny Lohner featuring Marilyn Manson, who has performed the song with Eminem live on stage.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDgokTyrzMc

Its worth noting somewhere that this is one of the only rap songs to rely heavily on anapestic tetrameter four anapestic feet (da da DUM) per line. In fact, the entire track except the hook uses this meter.
Anapestic tetrameter is more familiar from comic poetry, as in Twas the night before Christmas, Yertle the Turtle, and other Doctor Seuss storiesmeaning that this form is not suited for the anger Em expresses in this rap, but being controversial is what he does best.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Man, whatever
Dre, just let it run
Ayo, turn the beat up a little bit
Ayo
This song is for anyone
Fuck it, just shut up and listen
Ayo
[Verse 1]
I sit back with this pack of Zig-Zags and this bag of this weed
It gives me the shit needed to be the most meanest MC on this—
On this Earth, and since birth, I've been cursed with this curse to just curse
And just blurt this berserk and bizarre shit that works
And it sells and it helps in itself to relieve
All this tension, dispensin' these sentences
Gettin' this stress that's been eatin' me recently
Off of this chest, and I rest again peacefully
But at least have the decency in you
To leave me alone, when you freaks see me out
In the streets when I'm eatin' or feedin' my daughter
Do not come and speak to me
I don't know you, and, no, I don't owe you a motherfuckin' thing
I'm not Mr. *NSYNC, I'm not what your friends think
I'm not Mr. Friendly, I can be a prick
If you tempt me, my tank is on empty
No patience is in me, and if you offend me
I'm liftin' you ten feet in the air
I don't care who was there and who saw me, just jaw you
Go call you a lawyer, file you a lawsuit
I'll smile in the courtroom, and buy you a wardrobe
I'm tired of all you
I don't mean to be mean
But that's all I can be, it's just me
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
And I am whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am?
In the paper, the news, everyday I am
(Ha) Radio won't even play my jam
'Cause I am whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am?
In the paper, the news, everyday I am
(Ha) I don't know, that's just the way I am

[Verse 2]
Sometimes I just feel like my father, I hate to be bothered
With all of this nonsense, it's constant
And, "Oh, it's his lyrical content
The song Guilty Conscience has gotten such rotten responses"
And all of this controversy circles me
And it seems like the media immediately points a finger at me
So I point one back at 'em, but not the index or pinkie
Or the ring or the thumb, it's the one you put up
When you don't give a fuck, when you won't just put up
With the bullshit they pull, 'cause they full of shit too
When a dude's gettin' bullied and shoots up his school
And they blame it on Marilyn and the heroin
Where were the parents at?
And look where it's at
Middle America, now it's a tragedy
Now it's so sad to see
An upper-class city havin' this happenin'
Then attack Eminem 'cause I rap this way, but I'm glad
'Cause they feed me the fuel that I need for the fire to burn
And it's burnin', and I have returned
[Chorus]
And I am whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am?
In the paper, the news, everyday I am
Radio won't even play my jam
'Cause I am whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am?
In the paper, the news, everyday I am
(Ha) I don't know, that's just the way I am

[Verse 3]
I'm so sick and tired of bein' admired that I wish that I would just die or get fired
And dropped from my label, let's stop with the fables
I'm not gonna be able to top a My Name Is
And pigeon-holed into some poppy sensation
To cop me rotation at rock 'n' roll stations
And I just do not got the patience
To deal with these cocky Caucasians who think
I'm some wigga who just tries to be black
'Cause I talk with an accent and grab on my balls
So they always keep askin' the same fuckin' questions
What school did I go to, what hood I grew up in
The why, the who, what, when, the where, and the how
'Til I'm grabbin' my hair and I'm tearin' it out (Argh)
'Cause they drivin' me crazy, I can't take it
I'm racin', I'm pacin', I stand, and I sit
And I'm thankful for every fan that I get
But I can't take a shit in the bathroom without someone standin' by it
No, I won't sign your autograph
You can call me an asshole, I'm glad
[Chorus]
'Cause I am whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am?
In the paper, the news, everyday I am
Radio won't even play my jam
'Cause I am whatever you say I am
If I wasn't, then why would I say I am?
In the paper, the news, everyday I am
(Ha) I don't know, that's just the way I am
[Produced by Eminem]

Title: My Name Is
Release Date: January 25, 1999, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-my-name-is-lyrics
Song Description: The song that vaulted Eminem onto the national stage. This was the lead single from Eminems major label debut The Slim Shady LP

While Marshall bagged a Grammy for Best Rap Solo Performance at the 42nd Grammy Awards in 2000, the song wasnt without controversy. Some of the lyrics, specifically: 99 percent of my life I was lied to / I just found out my mom does more dope than I do were the reason Debbie Mathers (Eminems mother) sued him.

My Name Is samples the 1975 song I Got The by British musician Labi Siffre.

https://youtu.be/7Cp58rWCR8Y?t=129

Siffrean openly gay manwas reluctant to have his song be sampled in a song as homophobic as My Name Is. He let Dr. Dre and Eminem sample the song on the condition that they get rid of lines about raping lesbians and Eminems gay junior high teacher. (Both of those lyrics can be found on the extra explicit version of the song.) When Labi Siffres album Remember My Song was re-released Labi Siffre wrote in his liner notes about Eminem. He wrote,

Attacking two of the usual scapegoats, women and gays, is lazy writing. If you want to be radical, if you want to do battle, attack the aggressors not the victims.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Dr. Dre]

[Chorus: Eminem]
Hi, my name is, what? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, what?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, what? (Excuse me) My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
(Can I have the attention of the class for one second?)
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, what?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady

[Verse 1: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Hi, kids, do you like violence? (Yeah, yeah, yeah)
Wanna see me stick nine-inch nails through each one of my eyelids? (Uh-huh)
Wanna copy me and do exactly like I did? (Yeah, yeah)
Try 'cid and get fucked up worse than my life is? (Huh?)
My brain's dead weight, I'm tryna get my head straight
But I can't figure out which Spice Girl I want to impregnate (Oh)
And Dr. Dre said, "Slim Shady, you a basehead" (Uh-uh)
"Then why's your face red? Man, you wasted"
Well, since age 12, I felt like I'm someone else
'Cause I hung my original self from the top bunk with a belt
Got pissed off and ripped Pamela Lee's tits off
And smacked her so hard I knocked her clothes backwards like Kris Kross
I smoke a fat pound of grass, and fall on my ass
Faster than a fat bitch who sat down too fast
Come here, slut; "Shady, wait a minute, that's my girl, dawg"
I don't give a fuck, God sent me to piss the world off
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
Hi, my name is, what? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, what?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, what? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, what?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady

[Verse 2: Eminem]
My English teacher wanted to flunk me in junior high (Shh)
Thanks a lot, next semester I'll be 35
I smacked him in his face with an eraser, chased him with a stapler
And stapled his nuts to a stack of paper (Ow)
Walked in the strip club, had my jacket zipped up
Flashed the bartender, then stuck my dick in the tip cup
Extraterrestrial, running over pedestrians in a spaceship While they're screaming at me, "Let's just be friends"
99 percent of my life, I was lied to
I just found out my mom does more dope than I do (Damn)
I told her I'd grow up to be a famous rapper
Make a record about doin' drugs and name it after her
(Oh, thank you)
You know you blew up when the women rush your stands
And try to touch your hands like some screamin' Usher fans
(Ahh, ahh, ahh)
This guy at White Castle asked for my autograph (Dude, can I get your autograph?)
So I signed it, "Dear Dave, thanks for the support, asshole"
[Chorus: Eminem]
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, what? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, what? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Stop the tape, this kid needs to be locked away (Get him)
Dr. Dre, don't just stand there, operate
I'm not ready to leave, it's too scary to die (Fuck that)
I'll have to be carried inside the cemetery and buried alive
(Huh, yup)
Am I comin' or goin'? I can barely decide
I just drank a fifth of vodka, dare me to drive? (Go ahead)
All my life I was very deprived
I ain't had a woman in years and my palms are too hairy to hide (Whoops)
Clothes ripped like the Incredible Hulk
I spit when I talk, I'll fuck anything that walks (Come here)
When I was little, I used to get so hungry I would throw fits
How you gonna breastfeed me, Mom? You ain't got no tits
I lay awake and strap myself in the bed
With a bulletproof vest on and shoot myself in the head (Bang)
'Cause I'm steamin' mad (Grr)
And by the way, when you see my dad (Yeah?)
Tell him that I slit his throat in this dream I had
[Chorus: Eminem]
Hi, my name is, what? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, what?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, who? My name is, huh?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady
Hi, my name is, huh? My name is, who?
My name is, chka-chka, Slim Shady206Embed

Title: Not Afraid
Release Date: April 29, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-not-afraid-lyrics
Song Description: An inspirational and brutally honest anthem for Eminems fans addressing that of his struggles and triumphs, and encouraging his fans to reach their triumphs as well.

When interviewed by Rolling Stone: Not Afraid has a positive message for people trying to overcome obstacles. Are you more comfortable now with the idea of being a role model?

Whatever I can be to people is fine. Some people may look up to me. Some people may consider me a fucking menace. But Im grateful for every fan letter I get, and for every person who says I helped save them. I dont know, man. I feel like I took a lot of time off. Not doing shit for those four or five years, how lazy I got  its time to get back to doing what I love. I feel like Ive got a lot of gas in the tank. I just want to make up for letting people down.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
(I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid) Yeah
(To take a stand, to take a stand) It's been a ride
(Everybody, everybody) I guess I had to
(Come take my hand, come take my hand) Go to that place to get to this one
(We'll walk this road together, through the storm) Now some of you
(Whatever weather, cold or warm) Might still be in that place
(Just lettin' you know that you're not alone) If you're tryna get out
(Holla if you feel like you've been down the same road) Just follow me, I'll get you there

[Verse 1]
You can try and read my lyrics off of this paper before I lay 'em
But you won't take the sting out these words before I say 'em
'Cause ain't no way I'ma let you stop me from causin' mayhem
When I say I'ma do somethin', I do it
I don't give a damn what you think, I'm doin' this for me
So fuck the world, feed it beans, it's gassed up if it thinks it's stoppin' me
I'ma be what I set out to be, without a doubt, undoubtedly
And all those who look down on me, I'm tearin' down your balcony
No ifs, ands or buts, don't try to ask him why or how can he
From Infinite down to the last Relapse album
He's still shittin' whether he's on salary, paid hourly
Until he bows out or he shits his bowels out of him
Whichever comes first, for better or worse
He's married to the game like a "Fuck you" for Christmas
His gift is a curse, forget the Earth, he's got the urge to pull his dick from the dirt
And fuck the whole universe
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid
To take a stand, to take a stand
Everybody, everybody
Come take my hand, come take my hand
We'll walk this road together, through the storm
Whatever weather, cold or warm
Just lettin' you know that you're not alone
Holla if you feel like you've been down the same road

[Verse 2]
Okay, quit playin' with the scissors and shit, and cut the crap
I shouldn't have to rhyme these words in a rhythm for you to know it's a wrap
You said you was king, you lied through your teeth
For that, fuck your feelings, instead of gettin' crowned, you're gettin' capped
And to the fans, I'll never let you down again, I'm back
I promise to never go back on that promise
In fact, let's be honest, that last Relapse CD was "ehh"
Perhaps I ran them accents into the ground
Relax, I ain't goin' back to that now
All I'm tryna say is get back, click-clack-blaow
'Cause I ain't playin' around
There's a game called circle and I don't know how
I'm way too up to back down
But I think I'm still tryna figure this crap out
Thought I had it mapped out, but I guess I didn't
This fuckin' black cloud still follows me around
But it's time to exorcise these demons
These motherfuckers are doin' jumpin' jacks now
[Chorus]
I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid
To take a stand, to take a stand
Everybody, everybody
Come take my hand, come take my hand
We'll walk this road together, through the storm
Whatever weather, cold or warm
Just lettin' you know that you're not alone
Holla if you feel like you've been down the same road (Same road, same road)

[Bridge]
And I just can't keep livin' this way
So startin' today
I'm breakin' out of this cage
I'm standin' up, I'ma face my demons
I'm mannin' up, I'ma hold my ground
I've had enough, now I'm so fed up
Time to put my life back together right now

[Verse 3]
It was my decision to get clean, I did it for me
Admittedly I probably did it subliminally for you
So I could come back a brand-new me, you helped see me through
And don't even realize what you did, believe me, you
I've been through the wringer
But they can do little to the middle finger
I think I got a tear in my eye, I feel like the king of
My world, haters can make like bees with no stingers
And drop dead: no more beef lingers
No more drama from now on
I promise to focus solely on handlin' my responsibilities as a father
So I solemnly swear to always treat this roof like my daughters and raise it
You couldn't lift a single shingle on it
'Cause the way I feel, I'm strong enough to go to the club
Or the corner pub and lift the whole liquor counter up
'Cause I'm raisin' the bar, I'd shoot for the moon
But I'm too busy gazin' at stars, I feel amazin', and
[Chorus]
I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid
To take a stand, to take a stand
Everybody, everybody
Come take my hand, come take my hand
We'll walk this road together, through the storm
Whatever weather, cold or warm
Just lettin' you know that you're not alone
Holla if you feel like you've been down the same road (Same road, same-)

Title: Sing for the Moment
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-sing-for-the-moment-lyrics
Song Description: This song was the fourth single released from Eminems fourth studio album The Eminem Show. It was an international hit, reaching the top 10 in several countries and peaking at #14 in the US in May 2003.

Eminem interpolates Dream On by Aerosmith, and has their guitarist Joe Perry play the guitar solo towards the end of the song. The track also samples its drums from Titanics I See No Reason.

While addressing his effect on youth of the world, Em touches on his altercation with bouncer John Guerra (altered in this song as Guerrera, the Spanish word for female warrior). Em claims to have punched him not pistol whipped him (as Guerra claimed).
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Eminem]
These ideas are nightmares to white parents
Whose worst fear is a child with dyed hair and who likes earrings
Like whatever they say has no bearing
It's so scary in a house that allows no swearing
To see him walkin' around with his headphones blarin'
Alone in his own zone, cold and he don't care
He's a problemed child, and what bothers him all comes out
When he talks about his fuckin' dad walkin' out (Bitch)
'Cause he hates him so bad that he blocks him out
If he ever saw him again, he'd probably knock him out
His thoughts are wacked, he's mad, so he's talkin' back
Talkin' black, brainwashed from rock and rap
He sags his pants, durags, and a stockin' cap
His stepfather hit him so he socked him back
And broke his nose, his house is a broken home
There's no control, he just lets his emotions go
[Chorus: Steven Tyler & Eminem]
(Come on) Sing with me (Sing), sing for the year (Sing it)
Sing for the laughter and sing for the tear (Come on)
Sing it with me, it's just for today
Maybe tomorrow, the good lord will take you away

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Entertainment is changin', intertwinin' with gangsters
In the land of the killers, a sinner's mind is a sanctum
Holy or unholy, only have one homie
Only this gun, lonely, 'cause don't anyone know me
Yet everybody just feels like they can relate (Uh-huh)
I guess words are a motherfucker, they can be great (Ugh)
Or they can degrade, or even worse, they can teach hate
It's like these kids hang on every single statement we make
Like they worship us, plus all the stores ship us platinum
Now how the fuck did this metamorphosis happen?
From standin' on corners and porches just rappin'
To havin' a fortune, no more kissin' ass
But then these critics crucify you (Yep), journalists try to burn you
Fans turn on you, attorneys all want a turn at you
To get they hands on every dime you have
They want you to lose your mind every time you mad
So they can try to make you out to look like a loose cannon
Any dispute won't hesitate to produce handguns
That's why these prosecutors wanna convict me
Strictly just to get me off of these streets quickly
But all they kids be listenin' to me religiously
So, I'm signin' CDs while police fingerprint me
They're for the judge's daughter, but his grudge is against me
If I'm such a fuckin' menace, this shit doesn't make sense, b'
It's all political, if my music is literal
And I'm a criminal, how the fuck can I raise a little girl?
I couldn't, I wouldn't be fit to
You're full of shit too, Guerrera, that was a fist that hit you (Bitch)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Steven Tyler & Eminem]
(Come on) Sing with me (Sing), sing for the year (Sing it)
Sing for the laughter and sing for the tear (Sing that shit)
Sing it with me, it's just for today
Maybe tomorrow, the good lord will take you away

[Verse 3: Eminem]
They say music can alter moods and talk to you
Well, can it load a gun up for you and cock it too?
Well, if it can, then the next time you assault a dude
Just tell the judge it was my fault, and I'll get sued
See, what these kids do is hear about us totin' pistols
And they wanna get one 'cause they think this shit's cool
Not knowin' we really just protectin' ourselves
We entertainers, of course the shit's affectin' our sales
You ignoramus, but music is reflection of self
We just explain it, and then we get our checks in the mail
It's fucked up, ain't it? How we can come from practically nothin'
To bein' able to have any fuckin' thing that we wanted
That's why we sing for these kids who don't have a thing
Except for a dream and a fuckin' rap magazine (Haha)
Who post pin-up pictures on they walls all day long
Idolize they favorite rappers and know all they songs
Or for anyone who's ever been through shit in they lives
So they sit and they cry at night, wishin' they'd die
'Til they throw on a rap record, and they sit and they vibe
We're nothin' to you, but we're the fuckin' shit in they eyes
That's why we seize the moment, try to freeze it and own it
Squeeze it and hold it 'cause we consider these minutes golden
And maybe they'll admit it when we're gone
Just let our spirits live on
Through our lyrics that you hear in our songs, and we can—
[Chorus: Steven Tyler & Eminem]
Sing with me (Sing), sing for the year (Sing it)
Sing for the laughter and sing for the tear (Come on)
Sing it with me, it's just for today
Maybe tomorrow, the good lord will take you away

[Outro: Steven Tyler & Eminem]
Sing with me (Sing), sing for the year (Sing it)
Sing for the laughter and sing for the tear (Come on)
Sing it with me, it's just for today
Maybe tomorrow, the good lord will take you away332Embed

Title: No Love
Release Date: June 18, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-no-love-lyrics
Song Description: The main theme of the third single off of Recovery remains a point of controversy. While many believe it to be a personification of Hip-Hop (with another notable mention on the album being 25 To Life), others believe its an extended version of the alleged subtle Lil Wayne diss on Not Afraid, however its worth mentioning no tangible evidence has been provided to support this theory and the fanbase is far from being unanimous about it.

All in all, the song is a wake up call to the Rap industry with Eminem himself expressing his thoughts about its stagnancy during his hiatus following Encore.

The beat  by mega-producer Just Blaze  samples Haddaways 90s pop-techno hit What Is Love? (you might remember it as the theme song from A Night at the Roxbury).

Eminem & Lil Wayne were previously featured on Drakes 2009 single, Forever together, and Eminem the year before also featured on Waynes single, Drop The World.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Haddaway, Eminem, & Lil Wayne]
Love, love
Love, love, love
[Mumbling chorus]
Don't hurt me
Don't hurt me no more
Young Money, yeah
No more
Uh
Love

[Verse 1: Lil Wayne & Haddaway]
Throw dirt on me and grow a wildflower
But it's "Fuck the world," get a child out her
Yeah, my life a bitch, but you know nothing 'bout her
Been to hell and back, I can show you vouchers (Love)
I'm rollin' Sweets, I'm smokin' sour
Married to the game, but she broke her vows
That's why my bars are full of broken bottles
And my nightstands are full of open Bibles
Uh, I think about more than I forget
But I don't go around fire expectin' not to sweat
And these niggas know I lay 'em down, make your bed
Bitches try to kick me while I'm down, I'll break your leg
Money outweighin' problems on a triple beam
I'm stickin' to the script, you niggas skippin' scenes
Uh, be good or be good at it
Fuckin' right, I got my gun, semi-Cartermatic
Yeah, put a dick in they mouth, so I guess it's fuck what they say
I'm high as a bitch, up, up and away, man, I'll come down in a couple of days
Okay, you want me up in the cage? Then I'll come out in beast mode
I got this world stuck in the safe, combination is the G code
It's Weezy, motherfucker, Blood gang, and I'm in bleed mode
All about my dough, but I don't even check the peephole
So you can keep knockin', but won't knock me down
No love lost, no love found
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem, Lil Wayne, Both, & (Haddaway)]
It's a little too late to say that you're sorry now (Yeah)
You kicked me when I was down
But what you say just don't (Don't hurt me)
That's right, it don't (Don't hurt me)
And I don't need you (No more)
Don't wanna see you (No more)
Ha, bitch, you get no (Love)
You showed me nothing but hate (Haha!)
You ran me into the ground
But what comes around goes around (Yeah)
And I don't need you don't (Don't hurt me)
That's right, you don't (Don't hurt me)
And I don't need you (No more)
Don't wanna see you
Ha, bitch, you get (No love)
No! (No love) No! (No love) No! (No love)
Ha, bitch, you get (No love)
No! (No love) No! (No love)
And I don't need you (No more)
Get 'em!

[Verse 2: Eminem, Lil Wayne, & Both]
I'm alive again
More alive than I have been in my whole entire life, I can (Yeah)
See these people's ears perk up as I begin
To spaz with the pen
Uh, I'm a little bit sicker than most
Shit's finna get thick again
They say the competition is stiff
But I get a hard dick from this shit, now stick it in
I ain't never giving in again (Yeah)
Caution to the wind, complete freedom
Look at these rappers, how I treat 'em
So why the fuck would I join 'em when I beat 'em? (Yeah!)
They call me a freak, 'cause
I like to spit on these pussies 'fore I eat 'em (Haha)
Man, get these wack cocksuckers off stage!
Where the fuck is Kanye when you need him? (Oh!)
Snatch the mic from 'em, bitch, I'ma let you finish in a minute
Yeah, that rap was tight, but I'm (Yeah!)
'Bout to spit the greatest verse of all time
So you might want to go back to the lab tonight and, um (Yeah!)
Scribble out them rhymes you were gonna spit
And start over from scratch and write new ones
But I'm afraid that it ain't gonna make no difference
When I rip this stage and tear it in half tonight
It's an adrenaline rush to feel the bass thump
From the place all the way to the parking lot, fellow
Set fire to the mic and ignite the crowd (Yeah)
You can see the sparks from hot metal (Yeah)
Cold-hearted, from the day I Bogarted
The game, my soul started to rot, fellow (Yeah)
When I'm not even in my harshest
You can still get roasted, 'cause Marsh is not mellow
'Til I'm topplin' from the top, I'm not gonna stop
I'm standin' on my Monopoly board (Uh)
That means I'm on top of my game
And it don't stop 'til my hip don't hop anymore (Shit)
When you're so good that you can't say it
'Cause it ain't even cool for you to sound cocky anymore (Shit)
People just get sick 'cause you spit
These fools can't drool or dribble a drop anymore (Ow!)
And you can never break my stride (Nope)
You'll never slow the momentum at any moment, I'm 'bout to blow
You'll never take my pride
Killin' the flow, slow venom and the opponent is gettin' no
Mercy, mark my words
Ain't lettin' up, relentless, I smell blood
I don't give a fuck, keep givin' them hell
Where was you when I fell and needed help up?
You get no love
[Chorus: Eminem, Lil Wayne, Both, & (Haddaway)]
It's a little too late to say that you're sorry now (Uh)
You kicked me when I was down
But what you say just don't (Don't hurt me)
Yeah, that's right, it don't (Don't hurt me)
And I don't need you (No more)
Don't wanna see you (No more)
Ha, bitch, you get no (Love)
You showed me nothing but hate (Yeah!)
You ran me into the ground
But what comes around goes around
And I don't need you (Don't hurt me)
That's right, you don't (Don't hurt me)
And I don't need you (No more)
Don't wanna see you
Ha, bitch, you get (No love)
No! (No love) No! (No love) No! (No love)
Ha, bitch, you get (No love)
No! (No love) No! (No love)
And I don't need you (No more)
Ha, bitch, you get no (Love)

Title: Like Toy Soldiers
Release Date: November 12, 2004, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-like-toy-soldiers-lyrics
Song Description: Sampling a childrens choir from Martikas Toy Soldiers for the chorus, Like Toy Soldiers finds Eminem emphasizing the importance of friendship and his duty/respect to those he holds in high esteem during times of conflict.

In his early career, Eminems controversial lyrics, namedropping, and outspokennessoften delivered through his Slim Shady alter egogot him a lot of publicity and involved in a lot of beefs. In fact, in June 2019, Hip Hop By The Numbers calculated that hed dissed 137 people on his solo albums, with this album, Encore, featuring the most, with 39.9% of the lyrics devoted to targeting people.

Therefore, this song was in stark contrast to his more unruly persona of only a few years prior, demonstrating considerable growth in his character, and a desire for pacifism that didnt require him to submit to the will of his competition. He was no doubt hoping to prevent further loss of human life by setting this example.

This desire to rise above violence and jadedness to direct conflict was likely attributable to his maturing perspective of it, and his maturing in general. Hip-hop had lostand has continued to losemany icons and promising artists to needless violence. Three such icons were immortalized at the end of the songs visuals, namely Big L, The Notorious B.I.G., and 2Pacall artists that Eminem greatly admired. One other lesser-known artist is also immortalized. Bugz, who was a founding member of Eminems group D12. Bugz was murdered in May 1999, getting shot in the back whilst walking away from a physical altercation.



Eerily, the video depicts Proof being shot and subsequently dying, which went on to become a reality less than a year-and-a-half later. Though there are still conflicting reports around what exactly happened, it is known that Proof was murdered in a bar during a drunken altercation over a game of pool.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Step by step, heart to heart
Left, right, left, we all fall down

[Chorus: Martika]
Step by step (Oh), heart to heart (Heart to heart)
Left, right, left, we all fall down (All fall down; All fall down, all fall down, oh)
Like toy soldiers
Bit by bit (Bit by bit), torn apart (Torn apart)
We never win but the battle wages on
For toy soldiers

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'm supposed to be the soldier who never blows his composure
Even though I hold the weight of the whole world on my shoulders
I ain't never supposed to show it, my crew ain't supposed to know it
Even if it means goin' toe-to-toe with a Benzino
It don't matter, I'd never drag 'em in battles that I can handle
'Less I absolutely have to, I'm supposed to set an example
I need to be the leader, my crew looks for me to guide 'em
If some shit ever does pop off, I'm supposed to be beside 'em
That Ja shit, I tried to squash it, it was too late to stop it
There's a certain line you just don't cross and he crossed it
I heard him say Hailie's name on a song and I just lost it
It was crazy, the shit went way beyond some Jay-Z and Nas shit
And even though the battle was won, I feel like we lost it
I spent so much energy on it, honestly I'm exhausted
And I'm so caught in it, I almost feel I'm the one who caused it
This ain't what I'm in hip-hop for, it's not why I got in it
That was never my object, for someone to get killed
Why would I wanna destroy somethin' I helped build?
That wasn't my intentions, my intentions were good
I went through my whole career without ever mentionin' ****
And that was just out of respect, for not runnin' my mouth
And talkin' about somethin' that I knew nothin' about
Plus Dre told me, "Stay out," this just wasn't my beef
So I did, I just fell back, watched and gritted my teeth
While he's all over TV, down-talkin' a man
Who literally saved my life, like fuck it, I understand
This is business, and this shit just isn't none of my business
But still knowin' the shit could pop off at any minute, 'cause
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Martika]
Step by step (Oh), heart to heart (Heart to heart)
Left, right, left, we all fall down (All fall down; All fall down, all fall down, oh)
Like toy soldiers
Bit by bit (Bit by bit), torn apart (Torn apart)
We never win but the battle wages on
For toy soldiers

[Verse 2: Eminem]
There used to be a time when you could just say a rhyme and
Wouldn't have to worry about one of your people dyin'
But now it's elevated, 'cause once you put someone's kids in it
The shit gets escalated, it ain't just words no more, is it?
It's a different ballgame, you callin' names, and you ain't just rappin'
We actually tried to stop the 50 and Ja beef from happenin'
Me and Dre had sat with him, kicked it and had a chat with him
And asked him not to start it, he wasn't gonna go after him
Until Ja started yappin' in magazines how he stabbed him
Fuck it, 50, smash him, mash on him, let him have it
Meanwhile, my attention's pulled in another direction
Some receptionist at The Source who answers phones at his desk
Has an erection for me and thinks that I'll be his resurrection
Tries to blow the dust off his mic and make a new record
But now he's fucked the game up 'cause one of the ways I came up
Was through that publication, the same one that made me famous
Now the owner of it has got a grudge against me for nothin'?
Well, fuck it, that motherfucker could get it too, fuck him then
But I'm so busy bein' pissed off, I don't stop to think
That we've just inherited 50's beef with Murder Inc.​
And he's inherited mine, which is fine, ain't like either of us mind
We still have soldiers that's on the front line
Who's willin' to die for us as soon as we give the orders
Never to extort us, strictly to show they support us
And maybe shout 'em out in a rap or up in a chorus
To show 'em we love 'em back and let 'em know how important
It is to have Runyon Avenue soldiers up in our corners
Their loyalty to us is worth more than any award is
But I ain't tryna have none of my people hurt or murdered
It ain't worth it, I can't think of a perfecter way to word it
Than to just say that I love y'all too much to see the verdict
I'll walk away from it all 'fore I let it go any further
But don't get it twisted, it's not a plea that I'm coppin'
I'm just willin' to be the bigger man, if y'all can quit poppin'
Off at the jaws, well, then I can, 'cause frankly I'm sick of talkin'
I'm not gonna let someone else's coffin rest on my conscience, 'cause
[Chorus: Martika]
Step by step (Oh), heart to heart (Heart to heart)
Left, right, left, we all fall down (All fall down; All fall down, all fall down, oh)
Like toy soldiers
Bit by bit (Bit by bit), torn apart (Torn apart)
We never win but the battle wages on
For toy soldiers
[Music Video Analysis]

Title: Headlights
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-headlights-lyrics
Song Description: Over a beat based on Mother by John Lennon, Eminem issues a public apology to his mom on Headlights. Eminem and his mother have never really gotten along, as she has been a target of hateful lyrics in songs like Cleanin' Out my Closet (2002) and My Mom (2009). After years of vitriol, Em now raps with a more mature perspective and expresses remorse and even apologizes for the songs attacking her.



Above is a paper containing some of the lyrics from the second verse, from the music video.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Nate Ruess]
Mom, I know I let you down
And though you say the days are happy
Why is the power off and I'm fucked up?
And, Mom, I know he's not around
But don't you place the blame on me
As you pour yourself another drink, yeah

[Chorus: Nate Ruess]
I guess we are who we are
Headlights shining in the dark night, I drive on
Maybe we took this too far

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I went in headfirst, never thinkin' about who what I said hurt
In what verse, my mom probably got it the worst
The brunt of it, but as stubborn as we are, did I take it too far?
"Cleanin' Out My Closet" and all them other songs
But regardless, I don't hate you ‘cause, Ma
You're still beautiful to me, ‘cause you're my mom
Though far be it from you to be calm
Our house was Vietnam, Desert Storm
And both of us put together could form an atomic bomb
Equivalent to chemical warfare
And forever we could drag this on and on
But agree to disagree, that gift for me
Up under the Christmas tree don't mean shit to me
You're kickin' me out? It's fifteen degrees
And it's Christmas Eve, "Little prick, just leave!"
Ma, let me grab my fucking coat!
Anything to have each other's goats
Why we always at each other's throats?
Especially when Dad, he fucked us both
We're in the same fuckin' boat
You'd think that'd make us close (Nope)
Further away it drove us, but together, headlights shine
And a car full of belongings, still got a ways to go
Back to grandma's house, it's straight up the road
And I was the man of the house, the oldest
So my shoulders carried the weight of the load
Then Nate got taken away by the state at eight-years-old
And that's when I realized you were sick
And it wasn't fixable or changeable
And to this day we remain estranged, and I hate it though, but—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Nate Ruess]
I guess we are who we are
Headlights shining in the dark night, I drive on
Maybe we took this too far

[Verse 2: Eminem]
‘Cause to this day we remain estranged and I hate it though
‘Cause you ain't even get to witness your grandbabies grow
But I'm sorry, Mama, for "Cleanin' Out My Closet"
At the time I was angry, rightfully? Maybe so
Never meant that far to take it, though
‘Cause now I know it's not your fault, and I'm not makin' jokes
That song I no longer play at shows
And I cringe every time it's on the radio
And I think of Nathan being placed in a home
And all the medicine you fed us and
How I just wanted you to taste your own
But now the medication's takin' over
And your mental state's deterioratin' slow
And I'm way too old to cry, this shit is painful, though
But, Ma, I forgive you, so does Nathan, yo
All you did, all you said, you did your best to raise us both
Foster care, that cross you bear, few may be as heavy as yours
But I love you, Debbie Mathers
Oh, what a tangled web we have ‘cause
One thing I never asked was
Where the fuck my deadbeat dad was
Fuck it, I guess he had trouble keepin' up with every address
But I'da flipped every mattress, every rock and desert cactus
Owned a collection of maps
And followed my kids to the edge of the atlas
If someone ever moved 'em from me
That you coulda bet your asses
If I had to come down the chimney, dressed as Santa, kidnap 'em
And although one has only met their grandma once
You pulled up in our drive one night
As we were leavin' to get some hamburgers
Me, her and Nate, we introduced you, hugged you
And as you left, I had this overwhelming sadness
Come over me as we pulled off to go our separate paths and
I saw your headlights as I looked back
And I'm mad I didn't get the chance to
Thank you for being my mom and my dad
So, Mom, please accept this as a
Tribute; I wrote this on the jet, I guess I had to
Get this off my chest, I hope I get the chance to
Lay it 'fore I'm dead, the stewardess said to fasten
My seatbelt, I guess we're crashin'
So, if I'm not dreamin', I hope you get this message that
I will always love you from afar, ‘cause you're my mom
[Chorus: Nate Ruess]
I guess we are who we are
Headlights shining in the dark night, I drive on
Maybe we took this too far

[Verse 3: Nate Ruess & Eminem]
I want a new life (Start over)
One without a cause (Clean slate)
So I'm coming home tonight (Yeah)
Well, no matter what the cost
And if the plane goes down
Or if the crew can't wake me up
Well, just know that I'm alright
I was not afraid to die
Oh, even if there's songs to sing
Well, my children will carry me
Just know that I'm alright
I was not afraid to die
Because I put my faith in my little girls
So I'll never say goodbye cruel world
Just know that I'm alright
I am not afraid to die

[Chorus: Nate Ruess]
I guess we are who we are
Headlights shining in the dark night, I drive on
Maybe we took this too far
I want a new life
[Produced by Emile Haynie & Jeff Bhasker]

Title: Kim
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-kim-lyrics
Song Description: Written in 1998, this is the prequel to 1997s 97' Bonnie & Clyde.

Em wrote in Angry Blonde:

This little media favorite was actually the first official song that I wrote for the album. I had to complete it back in 98, when the first album was done. I wrote this song when Kim and I werent together. We were broken up at the time. This was the end of 98. I remember I was watching a movie one day that inspired me to write a love song, but I didnt want to make a corny love song. It had to be some bugged-out shit. Though I dont remember what movie it was, I do remember feeling the frustration of us breaking up and having a daughter all in the mix. I really wanted to pour my heart out, but yet I wanted to scream. So the same day I went to the flick, I went back to the studio and once again walked into a session with the perfect beat already playing. Surprisingly enough Kim was the only track on the album that I had nothing to do with in terms of production. FBT created that track and they had it already for me in the studio. When I started writing the song I thought that maybe I could tie it into 97 Bonnie and Clyde. So I decided to make it a prequel. You never wouldve thought but I played it for her once we started talking. I asked her to tell me what she thought of it. I remember my dumb-ass saying I know this is a fucked-up song but it shows how much I care about you. To even think about you this much. To even put you in a song like this. I did the vocals in one take. The mood I wanted to capture was that of an argument that me and her would have, and judging from the attention the media has given this song, you can see thats exactly what I did and then some.

Per Rolling Stone:
Em has played [this song] for [Kim] already and claims that now she is truly convinced that he is insane. If I was her, I would have ran when I heard that shit, [Dr.] Dre says. Its over the top  the whole song is him screaming. Its good, though. Kim gives him a concept.

This track was deemed too explicit for the clean version of the album, and was replaced with a South Park-themed track titled The Kids
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Kim]
Aw, look at daddy's baby girl
That's daddy's baby, little sleepy head
Yesterday I changed your diaper
Wiped you and powdered you
How did you get so big?
Can't believe it, now you're two
Baby, you're so precious, daddy's so proud of you
Sit down, bitch! You move again, I'll beat the shit out of you! (Okay!)
[Verse 1: Eminem & Kim]
Don't make me wake this baby
She don't need to see what I'm 'bout to do
Quit crying, bitch! Why do you always make me shout at you?
How could you just leave me and love him out the blue?
Oh, what's the matter, Kim? Am I too loud for you?
Too bad, bitch! You're gonna finally hear me out this time!
At first I'm like, "Aight, you wanna throw me out? That's fine"
But not for him to take my place, are you out your mind?
This couch, this TV, this whole house is mine
How could you let him sleep in our bed?! Look it, Kim
Look at your husband now! (No!) I said look at him
He ain't so hot now, is he? Little punk
(Why are you doing this?!) Shut the fuck up! (You're drunk!)
(You're never gonna get away with this) You think I give a fuck?
Come on! We're going for a ride, bitch! (No!) Sit up front
(We can't just leave Hailie alone, what if she wakes up?)
We'll be right back, well, I will, you'll be in the trunk
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
So long, bitch, you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you
So long, bitch, you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you

[Verse 2: Eminem & Kim]
You really fucked me, Kim, you really did a number on me
Never knew me cheatin' on you would come back to haunt me
But we was kids then, Kim, I was only eighteen
That was years ago, I thought we wiped the slate clean
That's fucked up! (I love you) Oh God, my brain is racin'
(I love you) What are you doing? Change the station
I hate this song! Does this look like a big joke? (No)
There's a **** year old little ****
Laying dead with a slit throat, in your living room
Haha! What, you think I'm kiddin' you?
You loved him, didn't you? (No)
Bullshit, you bitch! Don't fuckin' lie to me
What the fuck's this guy's problem on the side of me?
Fuck you, asshole! Yeah, bite me
Kim? Kim! Why don't you like me?
You think I'm ugly, don't you? (It's not that) No, you think I'm ugly
(Baby) Get the fuck away from me! Don't touch me
I hate you! I hate you! I swear to God, I hate you
Oh my God, I love you How the fuck could you do this to me?
(I'm sorry) How the fuck could you do this to me?
[Chorus: Eminem]
So long, bitch, you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you
So long, bitch, you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you

[Verse 3: Eminem & Kim]
Come on, get out! (I can't! I'm scared)
I said get out, bitch! (Let go of my hair! Please don't do this, baby! Please! I love you! Look, we can just take Hailie and leave)
Fuck you
You did this to us! You did it! It's your fault
"Oh my God, I'm crackin' up" Get a grip, Marshall
Hey, 'member the time we went to Brian's party
And you were, like, so drunk that you threw up all over Archie?
That was funny, wasn't it? (Yes)
That was funny, wasn't it? (Yes)
See, it all makes sense, doesn't it?
You and your husband have a fight, one of you tries to grab a knife
And during the struggle he accidentally gets his Adam's apple sliced (No)
And while this is going on, his son just woke up
And he walks in, she panics, and he gets his throat cut
(Oh my God)  So now they both dead
And you slash your own throat (No)
So now it's double homicide and suicide with no note
I shoulda known better when you started to act weird
We could've—, hey, where you going? Get back here
You can't run from me, Kim! It's just us, nobody else
You're only making this harder on yourself
Ha-ha, gotcha! Go ahead, yell
Here, I'll scream with you, "Ah! Somebody help"
Don't you get it, bitch? No one can hear you
Now shut the fuck up, and get what's comin' to you
You were supposed to love me
Now bleed, bitch, bleed! Bleed, bitch, bleed! Bleed!
[Chorus: Eminem]
So long, bitch, you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you
So long, bitch, you did me so wrong
I don't wanna go on
Living in this world without you
*crickets, traffic, and trunk closing*

Title: Survival
Release Date: August 14, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-survival-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem vibrantly attempts to cement his top spot in the rap game. With the Darwinian theory of natural selection as a motif, he applies the idea of survival of the fittest to rap and claims that he is one of the fittest rapperswhich is the reason why the species Eminem has survived in the game for almost two decades and which is why he is still there.

Throwing in many appropriate animal and fighting references, Eminem sees himself at the top of raps food chain. Full of motivation, he demonstrates that he has been persevering and achieving to this day.

This song was debuted exclusively by the video game franchise Call Of Duty for the trailer of their 2013 installment Ghosts.

This was the latest continuation of his affiliation with the franchise, with Till I Collapse being featured on Modern Warfare 2s launch trailer, Wont Back Down being used in-game for Black Ops, and Love The Way You Lie being performed by Eminem and Rihanna at the 2010 E3 Black Ops press conference.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Yeah

[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues]
This is survival of the fittest
This is do or die
This is the winner takes it all
So, take it all, a-all, a-all, a-all
[Verse 1: Eminem]
Wasn't ready to be no millionaire, I was ill-prepared
I was prepared to be ill though, the skill was there
From the beginning it wasn't 'bout the ends, it was 'bout
Bustin' raps and standin' for somethin', fuck an acronym
Cut the fuckin' act like you're happy, I'm fuckin' back again
With another anthem – why stop when it doesn't have to end?
It ain't over 'til I say it's over, enough when I say enough
Throw me to them wolves and close the gate up, I'm afraid of what'll happen to them wolves when the thought of being thrown
Into an alligator pit, I salivate at it, wait is up
Hands up like it's 12 noon, nah, homie, hold them bitches straighter up
Wave 'em 'til you dislocate a rotator cuff
Came up rough, came to ruffle feathers, nah, egos, I ain't deflate enough
Last chance to make this whole stadium erupt, 'cause—
[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues]
This is survival of the fittest
This is do or die
This is the winner takes it all
So, take it all, a-all, a-all, a-all
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
I can see the finish line with each line that I finish
I'm so close to my goals, I can almost pole vault over the goal post
And if I don't got enough in the tank, maybe I can just siphon enough
To fill up this last can, man, will I survive in this climate or what?
They said I was washed-up and got a bloodbath
I'm not a rapper, I'm an adapter: I can adjust
Plus, I can just walk up to a mic and just bust
So, floor's open if you'd like to discuss
Top 5 in this muh'fucka, and if I don't make the cut
What? Like I give a fuck, I'ma light this bitch up like I'm driving a truck
Through the side of a pump, zero to sixty, hop in and gun it
Like G-Unit without the hyphen, I'm hyping 'em up
And if there should ever come a time where my life's in a rut
And I look like I might just give up, eh, might've mistook
Me for bowin' out, I ain't takin' a bow, I'm stabbin' myself
With a fuckin' knife in the gut while I'm wipin' my butt
'Cause I just shitted on the mic and I like gettin' cut
I get excited at the sight of my blood, you're in a fight with a nut
'Cause I'ma fight 'til I die or win, bitin' the dust
It'll just make me angrier; wait, let me remind you of what
Got me this far, picture me quittin'
Now draw a circle around it and put a line through it, slut
It's survival of what?
[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues]
This is survival of the fittest
This is do or die
This is the winner takes it all
So, take it all, a-all, a-all, a-all
So, take it all, a-all, a-all, a-all
[Verse 3: Eminem]
(Yeah) So, get your ideas, stack your ammo
But don't come unless you come to battle, now mount up, jump in the saddle
This is it—it's what you eat, sleep, piss and shit
Live, breathe, your whole existence just consists of this
Refuse to quit, fuse is lit, can't defuse the wick
I don't do this music shit, I'll lose my shit
Ain't got shit to lose, it's the moment of truth, it's all I know how to do
As soon as I get thrown in a booth, I spit
But my respect is overdue, I'm showin' you the flow no one do
'Cause I don't own no diploma for school, I quit
So there's nothin' for me to fall back on, I know no other trade
So you better trade your fuckin' mics in for some tool-box-es
'Cause you'll never take my pride from me, it'll have to be pried from me
So, pull out your pliers and your screwdrivers
But I want you to doubt me, I don't want you to buh-lieve
'Cause this is somethin' that I must use to succeed
And if you don't like me, then fuck you
Self-esteem must be fuckin' shootin' through the roof, 'cause trust me
My skin is too thick and bulletproof to touch me
I can see why the fuck I disgust you, I must be
Allergic to failure, 'cause everytime I come close to it
I just sneeze, but I just go achoo then a-chieve
[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues]
This is survival of the fittest
This is do or die
This is the winner takes it all
So, take it all, a-all, a-all, a-all
So, take it all, a-all, a-all, a-all319Embed

Title: Greatest
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-greatest-lyrics
Song Description: The fast going track Greatest features a heavy multi-syllable rhyme scheme, and wordplay that serves to prove that Em indeed is the greatest.

He criticizes artists who brag about how much they have achieved, when they have over saturated the hip hop scene with their amount of output. He also disses Die Antwoord after they were mad he mispronounced their name when he initially gave them a shout out in Untouchable.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Motherfuckers talkin' crazy (Yeah)
Sayin’ I should quit (Ah)
I fuckin' tell 'em "make me" (Bitch)
Eat a fuckin’ dick (Yeah)
I'm feelin' like the greatest (Woo!)
On the beat who ever did it
Mike WiLL the one who made it
It's Shady on the lyrics

[Verse 1]
I'm somewhat outlandish they say
You say we're cut from the same cloth
But I guess you fabricate, eh?
You better bring more men than the Latter Day Saints
Manic states, Stephen Paddock with automatic stay sprayin'
At anything that may stand in they way
As I stand at the bay window with a hand grenade
And a trey eight, at the Mandalay Bay
Common sense, I'm a dollar short and a day late
James Holmes at the Saturday Batman matinee
Must have missed my CAT scan that day (Yeah!)
I just threw a Tampax at Dre
Trashcan, Tascam and ashtray
I’m turnin’ back to a madman, can't take
Anymore but I try to get away from the anger and rage
My basal ganglia’s an A to the K
Get your ass sprayed like bidets
Breakin' your legs eight different ways, ankle to waist
You chumps don't even know how to do somethin'
To give goosebumps a day when you say
That somethin’ you wrote gave someone a lump in their throat
Or you had them choked up, you'd be yankin' my chain (Ayy)
Feel like I'm headed for the padded cell, the
Bar for me when I rap isn't fair but
Guess that's the standard I'm held to
But if somethin' like that doesn't tell ya
You set a mark too high when platinum sales are looked at as a failure (Yeah)
Then you better take it back to The Shelter and Hamburger Helper
'Cause, damn it, I'm still the
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
No lie, I might be
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
I feel like the greatest (Yeah!)
Woke up to honkies sounding like me
Never be as good (Yeah!)
Never be as good (Yeah!)
(Packing up) Wife-beaters, white t-shirts, what?
But I'm the greatest

[Verse 2]
So you sold ten million albums, eh? (What?)
Only problem is, you put out ten million albums, eh? (Haha! Wait)
What was I just about to say?
Oh yeah, let me get this out the way
I know there's people that are pissed about the way
I mispronounced a name, "Die Antwoord!"
Fuck, I still can't say this shit, but how quickly they forget
Who the fuck I was; now Ninja try to duck my slugs
You let ya girl get fucked by Muggs
I'd like to give a shout to Cypress (Woo!)
This can't be real, you dissed me and I was just tryin' to
Give you a shout—now get the fuck out my rhyme book
No more shiners, already too much time took
And rappers I hear you talkin' shit
I'm just too big to respond to it
God forbid I forget though, and jump out the window
Somebody better child-proof it (Yeah)
'Cause if I lose it we can rewind to some old Ja Rule shit
And I can remind motherfuckers how I do shit
You don't got the tools I got in my toolkit (Bitch!)
I bullshit you not, y'all fools just forgot
That I'm so fuckin' awful with the thoughts
And when I'm hostile and impossible to stop
So you can call it a nostril 'cause it's not gonna ever
I'll never let up on the pedal, might as well get the mop
'Cause I'm wipin' up everyone in this genre
'Cause on the mic I feel like I'm the
[Chorus]
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
No lie, I might be
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
I feel like the greatest (Yeah!)
Woke up to honkies sounding like me
Never be as good (Yeah!)
Never be as good (Yeah!)
(Packing up) Wife-beaters, white t-shirts, what?
But I'm the greatest

[Verse 3]
Oh yeah, and one more thing I want to mention (What?)
Is you're one dimension
I'm a monkey wrench and I can flunk detention
And I love contentions, so welcome to the gun convention
Muscles flexin', gotta strut like a front suspension (Woo)
And you just stuck the key up in the ignition
And gave me enough gas to flood my engine (Yeah)
Psychopath, Michael Jack's blowin' up like a raft
I should slap Vlad with a ISIS flag
Bet you I come back twice as bad (Uh)
Revival didn't go viral!
Denaun and Royce tell me that I should take the high road
Fuck that, I'm finna hit back
'Til I run out of gunpowder and split the scene (Pew)
Hold the mic similar to pistol, squeeze
And I shoot from the hip when I grip them things
And my lips are the clips, got the Sig lit like it's nicotine
Trigger me and Slim gets mean (Brr!)
Bars are like bullets when I spit them schemes
That's why I call the motherfuckers M16s (Woo!)
Float like a butterfly, I'm gonna sting like a bee
You ain't harmin' a thing
I hit a ding (Ding!) hard as I'm gonna swing
I'm gonna need to put my arm in a sling (Ow!)
But like a wedding band
You gotta be diamond to even climb in the ring
Anomaly, I'm Muhammad Ali
'Cause I knew one day (Hey!) I'm gonna be the
[Chorus]
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
Greatest in the world (Yeah!)
No lie, I might be
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
The best to ever do it (Yeah!)
I feel like the greatest (Yeah!)
Woke up to honkies sounding like me
Never be as good (Yeah!)
Never be as good (Yeah!)
(Packing up) Wife-beaters, white t-shirts, what?
But I'm the greatest260Embed

Title: Kill You
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-kill-you-lyrics
Song Description: Kill You is the opening track to the album, and is a lyrical tirade against Kim, Debbie Mathers, girlish rappers and women in general. The call-and-response part after the hook is a highlight of any given Eminem concert.

Em wrote in Angry Blonde:

I wanted to start the album with that song because everybody in the press was like 'whats he gonna rap about? Hes not miserable anymore.  The whole idea of this song was to say some of the most fucked-up shit. Just to let people know that Im back. That I didnt lose it. That I wasnt compromising nothing and I didnt change. If anythingI got worse.

Lynne Cheney, the Second Lady of the United States from 2001 to 2009, called for age-restrictions on music sales after citing lyrics from Kill You. She was very vocal against Eminem, and this song in particular.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
When I was just a little baby boy
My mama used to tell me these crazy things
She used to tell me my daddy was an evil man
She used to tell me he hated me
But, then, I got a little bit older and I realized she was the crazy one
But there was nothin' I could do or say to try to change it
'Cause that's just the way she was

[Verse 1]
They said I can't rap about bein' broke no more
They ain't say I can't rap about coke no more (Ah)
Slut, you think I won't choke no whore?
'Til the vocal cords won't work in her throat no more? (Ah<)
These motherfuckers are thinkin' I'm playin'
Thinkin' I'm sayin' this shit 'cause I'm thinkin' it just to be sayin' it (Ah)
Put your hands down, bitch, I ain't gon' shoot you
I'ma pull you to this bullet and put it through you (Ah)
Shut up, slut! You're causin' too much chaos
Just bend over and take it like a slut, okay, Ma?
"Oh, now he's rapin' his own mother
Abusin' a whore, snortin' coke and we gave him the Rolling Stone cover?"
You goddamn right, bitch, and now it's too late
I'm triple platinum, and tragedies happened in two states
I invented violence, you vile venomous volatile vicious
Vain Vicodin, vrin, vrin, vrin
Texas Chainsaw, left his brains all danglin' from his neck while his head barely hangs on
Blood, guts, guns, cuts
Knives, lives, wives, nuns, sluts
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus]
Bitch, I'ma kill you
You don't wanna fuck with me
Girls neither
You ain't nothin' but a slut to me
Bitch, I'ma kill you
You ain't got the balls to beef
We ain't gon' never stop beefin', I don't squash the beef
You better kill me
I'ma be another rapper dead for poppin' off at the mouth with shit I shouldn't have said
But when they kill me
I'm bringin' the world with me
Bitches too
You ain't nothin' but a girl to me (I said)

[Chorus]
You don't wanna fuck with Shady ('Cause why?)
'Cause Shady will fuckin' kill you (Ah, haha)
I said you don't wanna fuck with Shady (Why?)
'Cause Shady will fuckin' kill you

[Verse 2]
(Bitch, I'ma kill you) like a murder weapon
I'ma conceal you in a closet with mildew, sheets, pillows, and film you
Fuck with me, I been through Hell, shut the hell up
I'm tryna develop these pictures of the Devil to sell 'em
I ain't acid rap, but I rap on acid
Got a new blow-up doll and just had a strap-on added
Whoops, is that a subliminal hint? No
Just criminal intent to sodomize women again
Eminem offend? No, Eminem'll insult
And if you ever give in to him, you give him an impulse
To do it again, then if he does it again
You'll probably end up jumpin' out of somethin' up on the tenth (Ah)
Bitch, I'ma kill you
I ain't done, this ain't the chorus
I ain't even drug you in the woods yet to paint the forest
A bloodstain is orange after you wash it
Three or four times in a tub, but that's normal, ain't it, Norman?
Serial killer hidin' murder material in a cereal box on top of your stereo
Here we go again, we're out of our medicine
Out of our minds and we want in yours, let us in
[Pre-Chorus]
Or I'ma kill you
You don't wanna fuck with me
Girls neither
You ain't nothin' but a slut to me
Bitch, I'ma kill you
You ain't got the balls to beef
We ain't gon' never stop beefin', I don't squash the beef
You better kill me
I'ma be another rapper dead for poppin' off at the mouth with shit I shouldn't have said
But when they kill me
I'm bringin' the world with me
Bitches too
You ain't nothin' but a girl to me (I said)

[Chorus]
You don't wanna fuck with Shady ('Cause why?)
'Cause Shady will fuckin' kill you (Ah, haha)
I said you don't wanna fuck with Shady (Why?)
'Cause Shady will fuckin' kill you (Haha)

[Verse 3]
Know why I say these things?
'Cause ladies' screams keep creepin' in Shady's dreams
And the way things seem, I shouldn't have to pay these shrinks
These eighty Gs a week to say the same things tweece
Twice, whatever, I hate these things
Fuck shots, I hope the weed'll outweigh these drinks
Motherfuckers want me to come on their radio shows
Just to argue with 'em 'cause their ratings stink
Fuck that
I'll choke radio announcer to bouncer
From fat bitch to all seventy thousand pounds of her
From principal to the student body and counselor
From in-school to before-school or outta school
I don't even believe in breathin'
I'm leavin' air in your lungs just to hear you keep screamin' for me to seep it
Okay, I'm ready to go play, I got the machete from O. J.​
I'm ready to make everyone's throats ache
You faggots keep eggin' me on 'til I have you at knifepoint, then you beg me to stop?
Shut up, give me your hands and feet
I said shut up when I'm talkin' to you
You hear me? Answer me
[Pre-Chorus]
Or I'ma kill you
You don't wanna fuck with me
Girls neither
You ain't nothin' but a slut to me
Bitch, I'ma kill you
You don't got the balls to beef
We ain't gon' never stop beefin', I don't squash the beef
You better kill me
I'ma be another rapper dead for poppin' off at the mouth with shit I shouldn't have said
But when they kill me
I'm bringin' the world with me
Bitches too
You ain't nothin' but a girl to me
Bitch, I'ma kill you

[Chorus]
You don't wanna fuck with Shady ('Cause why?)
'Cause Shady will fuckin' kill you (Haha)
I said you don't wanna fuck with Shady (Why not?)
'Cause Shady will fuckin' kill you

[Outro]
Hahaha
I'm just playin', ladies
You know I love you
[Produced by Dr. Dre & Mel-Man]

Title: Love Game
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-love-game-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem and Kendrick used this track as a way of expressing their love for women. However this game of love has and owes no commitment to anyone in the game. She can do who she wants, when she wants, and however she wants. However they cant leave the game ever, even when it seems like too much to deal with. Its a never-ending cycle because they dont want to be alone forever most likely.

Its also interesting to note that Kendrick is the only guest MC on the MMLP2 and the only feature between Em and K.Dot so far.

Sidenote: The whole song could be one of the biggest extended metaphors Em has ever done in his career.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Rick Rubin]

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Something's burnin', I can't figure out what (Out what)
It's either lust or a cloud of dust
Judgement is clouded; must
Just be the powder from the power of (Love!)
But I'm in something I don't know how to get out of
Left my girl in the house alone (Ah!)
Is that my soon-to-be-spouse’s moan?
And the further I walk, the louder (Ah, ah!)
Pause for a minute to make certain that's what I heard
‘Cause after all, this is her place
So I give her the benefit of the doubt, I
Think I might be about to bust her, bust her (Ah!)
The thought's scary, yo, though and it hurts—brace!
Hope it ain't, "Here we go, yo!"
‘Cause my head already goes to worst-case
Scenario, though in the first place (Ah, fuck)
But you confirmed my low-end theory though (Ah!)
Should've known when I made it all the way to third base
And that was only the first date
Could've made it to home plate (Oh!)
But you slid straight for the dome and dove face first
"No, (*slurp*) you don't (*slurp*) under— (*slurp*) —stand, (*slurp*)
I (*slurp*) don't (*slurp*) do this for (*hic*) anyone, (*hic*) ever (*slurp*)"
Yeah, that ain't what they all say?
I'll say, you can suck a softball through a straw
Used to be my fiancé
'Til you sucked on Wayne, André, and Kanye
LeBron, Akon, JAY, Lil Jon, Raekwon, Ma$e
Polow da Don, Dre, Dante Ross, James Conway, Kwamé?!
Guess I'm gettin' my g-goddang Jigga on, eh?
'Cause your name, I'm beyond sayin' (Ha)
But fuck it, I'm movin' on, you women are all cray
But I'll probably always keep on playin' the—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Wayne Fontana]
Game of love, love, love, love
La-La-La-La-La love

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
She doesn't love me, no, she don't love me no more
She hates my company, guess she don't love me no more
I tried to get her up out of my head, left my bags at the door
She screamed she loved me like she never did before

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
And I told her, "Go where you wanna!
Go do whatcha wanna do, I don't care!"
And I told her, "Go where you wanna!
Go do whatcha wanna do, I don't care!"

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I told that bitch, "I'm a sucker for love, you a sucker for dick"
Suckin' dick in your mama tub, then your granny walked in
Told the stupid nigga to duck under the water
He drowned, like an abortion
They booked you for manslaughter
You beat the case and I called ya
"Sherane is not available now, leave a message at the tone
And Kendrick, don't forget to buy two pair of those
Expensive heels, you little fuckin' Ferris wheel
Fuckin' spinnin' on me—fuck you think, we gon' get married still?
Fuckin' Mary had a little lamb, this ain't no fairy tale
Fairy godmama better tell you how I fuckin' feel
Like you should fuckin' beat it
Or fuckin' eat it while I'm on my period
Now have a blessed day!" (*Phone hangs up*)
Bitch, you serious?
I'm in the mirror with this look on my face, curious
Why you ain't fuckin' with me? You cut me deep as Caesarean
You know I want you bad as a Benjamin, I'm delirious
I want you bad as the head shattered on George Zimmerman
After the Dillinger hit him diligently and killin' him
His mouthpiece for a Cadillac emblem
That's analogy and metaphor for you
I should win a medal for all the ways I adore you
This is me talkin' cordial, yeah, I got some home training
That ain't what you like, ain't it?
What about if I was as famous as Marshall?
Would you give fellatio in the carpool?
Cops pull us over, they just wanna know if you gargle
Singin', "I hope she's good enough
Meanwhile you're chasin' her"
Chlamydia couldn't even get rid of her
Pity the fool and pity the fool in me, I'ma live with her
[Pre-Chorus: Wayne Fontana]
Game of love, love, love, love
La-La-La-La-La love

[Chorus: Eminem & Kendrick Lamar & Kendrick Lamar]
She doesn't love me, no, she don't love me no more
She hates my company, guess she don't love me no more
I tried to get her up out of my head, left my bags at the door
She screamed she loved me like she never did before

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
And I told her, "Go where you wanna!
Go do whatcha wanna do, I don't care!"
And I told her, "Go where you wanna!
Go do whatcha wanna do, I don't care!"

[Verse 3: Eminem]
So needless to say I'm feelin' betrayed
Snatch my house key off her key chain
She jumps off Wee-Bey from The Wire's dick
Now she's chasin' me with a cheese grater
Here goes that broken record cliché
It's all my fault anyway, she's turnin' the tables, I'm a beat-break
She treats my face like Serato, she cuts and scratches like a DJ
Each day is an Instant Replay
They say what we display is symptomatic of addict behaviour
Back together, but forgot today was her B-day
She cut me off on the freeway
Simple misunderstanding, but just as I went to slam on the brakes
That's when I realized that she may be crazy as me, wait
Bitch cut my fuckin' brakeline
Stepped on them fuckers eight times
Still goin' seventy-three, thank God there's an exit comin' up
What the mother-F-U-C-K's wrong with her?
Hit the off ramp 'til I coasted to a goshdamn halt
Hit a fuckin' tree, now here she comes at full speed
She's racin' at me, okay, you wanna fuck with me, eh?
Snatch that bitch out her car through the window
She screamin', I body slam her on the cement
Until the concrete gave and created a sinkhole
Buried the stink ho in it, then paid to have the street repaved
(The fuck?) Woke up in a dream state
In a cold sweat like I got hit with a freeze ray during a heat wave
Guess I eventually caved though, 'cause she's layin' next to me in bed—directly aimin' a gat at my head!
Woke up again and jumped up
Like, "Fuck it! I've had it, I'm checkin' into rehab"
I confess I'm a static addict, I guess that's why I'm so clingy
Every girl I've ever had either says I got too much baggage
Or I'm too fuckin' dramatic
Man, what the fuck is the matter? I'm just a fuckin' romantic
I fuckin' love you, you fuckin' bitch!
Combative, possessive, in fact last time I was mad at an ex
I actually set off a chain reaction of tragic events
I said, "Hit the road", then after she left
I sent that bitch a text that said, "Be careful driving
Don't read this and have an accident"
She glanced to look at it and wrecked (*Car crashes*)
Too bad, thought we had a connect
No sense dwelling makes, never been a more compelling case
Than the model covered in L'Oréal and mace
Who fell from grace eleven stories for storytellin'
While the whore was yellin', "Rape!"
'Til her vocal cords were swellin'
And her voice were more hoarser than Tori Spellings' face
Still they swarm the gates of my fancy estates
To greet Norman Bates with a warm embrace
'Less you're Andrea Yates, don't ask me for a date though
Don't be late, well, the sentiment's great
But wait, think there's been a mistake
You wanted an intimate date, I wanna intimidate
I have infinite hate in my blood
It's mainly 'cause of the game of— (*Message sound*)
Wait, "dinner at eight"? I have infinite hate in my blood
It's mainly 'cause of the—
[Outro: Wayne Fontana]
Game of love, love, love, love
La-La-La-La-La love259Embed

Title: Space Bound
Release Date: June 18, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-space-bound-lyrics
Song Description: A summer love song that gets pretty visceral. Em describes a budding relationship that turns abusive. Its pretty affectionate, too, considering how graphic it gets at times.

You could consider it the sequel to Kim. In fact its possible that hes revisiting his relationship with his ex-wife in this song, as Eminem. Its about rewinding time. Wondering whether it all could have gone differently.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Eminem]
We touch, I feel a rush
We clutch, it isn't much
But it's enough to make me wonder what's in store for us
It's lust, it's torturous
You must be a sorceress
'Cause you just did the impossible, gained my trust
Don't play games, it'll be dangerous if you fuck me over
'Cause if I get burnt, I'ma show you what it's like to hurt
'Cause I been treated like dirt before ya
And love is evil, spell it backwards, I'll show ya
Nobody knows me, I'm cold
Walk down this road all alone
It's no one's fault but my own
It's the path I've chosen to go
Frozen as snow, I show no emotion whatsoever, so
Don't ask me why I have no love for these motherfuckin' hoes
Bloodsuckin' succubuses, what the fuck is up with this?
I've tried in this department, but I ain't had no luck with this
It sucks, but it's exactly what I thought it would be like tryin' to start over
I got a hole in my heart, but some kind of emotional roller coaster
Somethin' I won't go on, so you toy with my emotions, so it's over
It's like an explosion every time I hold ya
Wasn't jokin' when I told you you take my breath away
You're a supernova and I'm a
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Steve McEwan]
I'm a space-bound rocket ship and your heart's the Moon
And I'm aimin' right at you, right at you
Two-hundred-fifty-thousand miles on a clear night in June
And I'm aimin' right at you, right at you
Right at you

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I'll do whatever it takes
When I'm with you, I get the shakes
My body aches when I ain't with you, I have zero strength
There's no limit on how far I would go, no boundaries, no lengths
Why do we say that until we get that person that we think's gonna be that one?
And then once we get 'em, it's never the same
You want 'em when they don't want you
Soon as they do, feelings change
It's not a contest and I ain't on no conquest for no mate
I wasn't lookin' when I stumbled onto you, musta been fate
But so much is at stake, what the fuck does it take?
Let's cut to the chase 'fore the door shuts in your face
Promise me if I cave in and break and leave myself open
That I won't be makin' a mistake 'cause I'm a

[Chorus: Steve McEwan]
I'm a space-bound rocket ship and your heart's the Moon
And I'm aimin' right at you, right at you
Two-hundred-fifty-thousand miles on a clear night in June
And I'm aimin' right at you, right at you
Right at you
[Verse 3: Eminem]
So after a year and six months, it's no longer me that you want
But I love you so much it hurts, never mistreated you once
I poured my heart out to you, let down my guard, swear to God
I'll blow my brains in your lap, lay here and die in your arms
Drop to my knees and I'm pleadin', I'm tryna stop you from leavin'
You won't even listen, so fuck it, I'm tryna stop you from breathin'
I put both hands on your throat, I sit on top of you, squeezin'
'Til I snap your neck like a Popsicle stick, ain't no possible reason
I can think of to let you walk up out this house and let you live
Tears stream down both of my cheeks, now I let you go and just give
And 'fore I put that gun to my temple, I told you this

[Bridge: Eminem]
And I woulda done anything for you
To show you how much I adored you
But it's over now, it's too late to save our love
Just promise me you'll think of me
Every time you look up in the sky and see a star 'cause I'm a

[Chorus: Steve McEwan]
I'm a space-bound rocket ship and your heart's the Moon
And I'm aimin' right at you, right at you
Two-hundred-fifty-thousand miles on a clear night in June
And I'm so lost without you, without you
Without you279Embed

Title: Marshall Mathers
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-marshall-mathers-lyrics
Song Description: The title track off The Marshall Mathers LP is a direct reaction to the turmoil his life went in to after the release and runaway success of The Slim Shady LP, most notably the lawsuit his mother Debbie Mathers brought against him for defamation due to the way she was portrayed on that first record.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
You know, I just don't get it
Last year, I was nobody
This year, I'm selling records
Now everybody wants to come around
Like I owe 'em somethin'
The fuck you want from me
Ten-million dollars?
Get the fuck outta here
[Chorus 1]
You see, I'm just Marshall
Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
I'm just a regular guy, I don't know why all the
Fuss about me (Fuss about me)
Nobody ever gave a fuck before, all they did
Was doubt me (Did was doubt me)
Now everybody wanna run they mouth and try to
Take shots at me (Take shots at me)

[Verse 1]
Yo
You might see me joggin', you might see me walkin'
You might see me walkin' a dead Rottweiler dog
With its head chopped off in the park with a spiked collar
Hollerin' at him 'cause the son of a bitch won't quit barkin' (Ruff ruff)
Or leanin' out a window with a cocked shotgun
Drivin' up the block in the car that they shot Pac in
Lookin' for Big's killers, dressin' ridiculous
Blue and red, like I don't see what the big deal is
Double barrel 12-gauge bigger than Chris Wallace
Pissed off 'cause Biggie and Pac just missed all this
Watchin' all these cheap imitations get rich off 'em
And get dollars that shoulda been theirs like they switched wallets
And amidst all this Crist' poppin' and wristwatches
I just sit back and just watch and just get nauseous
And walk around with an empty bottle of Rémy Martin
Startin' shit like some twenty-six-year-old skinny Cartman (Goddamn it!)
An anti-Backstreet and Ricky Martin
Whose instinct's to kill *NSYNC, don't get me started
These fuckin' brats can't sing and Britney's garbage
What's this bitch, retarded? Give me back my sixteen dollars!
All I see is sissies in magazines smilin'
Whatever happened to wilin' out and bein' violent?
Whatever happened to catchin' a good old-fashioned passionate ass-whoopin'
And gettin' your shoes, coat and your hat tooken?
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Bridge]
New Kids on the Block suck a lot of dick
Boy, girl groups make me sick
And I can't wait 'til I catch all you faggots in public
I'ma love it (Hahaha)

[Verse 2]
Vanilla Ice don't like me (Uh-uh), he said some shit in Vibe to spite me (Yo)
Then went and dyed his hair just like me (Haha)
A bunch of little kids wanna swear just like me
And run around screamin' "I don't care, just bite me!" (Na-na)
I think I was put here to annoy the world
And destroy your little four-year-old boy or girl
Plus I was put here to put fear in faggots who spray Faygo Root Beer
And call themselves clowns 'cause they look queer (Hehe)
Faggy 2 Dope and Silent Gay
Claimin' Detroit, when y'all live twenty miles away (Fuckin' punks)
And I don't wrestle, I'll knock you fuckin' faggots the fuck out
Aks 'em about the club they was at when they snuck out
After they ducked out the back when they saw us and bugged out (Ah!)
Ducked down and got paintballs shot at they truck — blaow!
Look at y'all runnin' your mouth again
When you ain't seen a fuckin' mile road south of 10
And I don't need help from D12 to beat up two females
In make-up who may try to scratch me with Lee Nails
"Slim Anus"? You damn right, slim anus
I don't get fucked in mine like you two little flamin' faggots
[Chorus 2]
'Cause I'm just Marshall
Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
I'm not a wrestler guy, I'll knock you out
If you talk about me (Talk about me)
Come and see me on the streets alone if you assholes
Doubt me (Assholes doubt me)
And if you wanna run your mouth then come take your best shot
At me (Best shot at me)

[Verse 3]
Is it because you love me that y'all expect so much of me?
You little groupie bitch, get off me, go fuck Puffy
Now because of this blonde mop that's on top
Of this fucked up head that I've got, I've gone pop?
The underground just spunned around and did a three-sixty
Now these kids diss me and act like some big sissies
"Oh, he just did some shit with Missy
So now he thinks he's too big to do some shit with MC Get-Bizzy"
My fuckin' bitch mom's suin' for ten-million
She must want a dollar for every pill I've been stealin'
Shit, where the fuck you think I picked up the habit?
All I had to do was go in her room and lift up her mattress
Which is it, bitch: Mrs. Briggs or Ms. Mathers?
It doesn't matter, **** ******** **** ******'* * faggot
Talkin' about I fabricated my past
He's just aggravated I won't ejaculate in his ass (Ugh!)
So tell me, what the hell is a fella to do?
For every million I make, another relative sues
Family fightin' and fussin' over who wants to invite me to supper
All of a sudden, I got ninety-some cousins (Hey, it's me!)
A half-brother and sister who never seen me
Or even bothered to call me until they saw me on TV
Now everybody's so happy and proud
I'm finally allowed to step foot in my girlfriend's house (Hey!)
And then to top it off I walked to the newsstand
To buy this cheap-ass little magazine with a food stamp
Skipped to the last page, flipped right fast
And what do I see? A picture of my big white ass
Okay, let me give you motherfuckers some help, uh, here
"XXL! XXL!"
Now your magazine shouldn't have so much trouble to sell
Aw, fuck it, I'll even buy a couple myself
[Chorus 3]
'Cause I'm just Marshall
Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
I'm just a regular guy, I don't know why all the
Fuss about me (Fuss about me)
Nobody ever gave a fuck before, all they did
Was doubt me (Did was doubt me)
Now everybody wanna run they mouth and try to
Take shots at me (Take shots at me)
Because I'm just Marshall
Mathers (Marshall Mathers)
I'm just a regular guy, I don't know why all the
Fuss about me (Fuss about me)
Nobody ever gave a fuck before, all they did
Was doubt me (Did was doubt me)
Now everybody wanna run they mouth and try to
Take shots at me (Take shots at me)
[Instrumental]

Title: Shake That
Release Date: December 6, 2005, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-shake-that-lyrics
Song Description: A track so drenched in amoral hedonism it would make a porn actor blush, Shake That is Eminems last Curtain Call single, and one of the albums three original songs, Shake That, When Im Gone & FACK.

It closed a chapter of both Ems and Nate Doggs careers: it was Ems last hit before his 2006-2008 hiatus, and it was Nates last big hit prior to his strokes, retirement and untimely death.

Notably Nate engages in a sizeable amount of rapping here.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Nate Dogg]
Woo! Shady, Aftermath
Look at that bitch
Oh, shit, hey (Damn)

[Refrain: Eminem & Nate Dogg]
There she go, shakin' that ass on the flo'
Bumpin' and grindin' that pole
The way she's grindin' that pole
I think I'm losin' control

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Get buzzed, get drunk, get crunk
Get fucked up, hit the strip club
Don't forget ones, get your dick rubbed, get fucked
Get sucked, get wasted, shit-faceted
Pasted, plastered – puke, drink, throw up
Get a new drink, hit the bathroom sink, throw up
Wipe your shoe clean, got a routine goin'
Still got a few chunks on them shoestrings showin'
I was dehydrated 'til the beat vibrated
I was revived as soon as this bitch gyrated
Them hips and licked them lips, and that was it
I had to get Nate Dogg here to sing some shit

[Verse 2: Nate Dogg]
Two to the one, from the one to the three
I like good pussy and I like good tree
Smoke so much weed, you wouldn't believe
And I get mo' ass than a toilet seat
Three to the one, from the one to the three
I met a bad bitch last night in the D
Let me tell you how I made her leave with me:
Conversation and Hennessy
I've been to the motherfuckin' mountaintop
Heard motherfuckers talk, seen 'em drop
If I ain't got a weapon, I'ma pick up a rock
And when I bust yo' ass, I'm gon' continue to rock
Get your ass off the wall with your two left feet
It's real easy, just follow the beat
Don't let that fine girl pass you by
Look real close 'cause strobe lights lie
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Nate Dogg]
We 'bout to have a party (Turn the music up)
Let's get it started (Go 'head and shake your butt)
I'm lookin' fo' a girl with a body and a sexy strut
Wanna get it poppin', baby? Step right up
Some girls, they act retarded
Some girls are 'bout it, 'bout it
I'm lookin' fo' a girl that will do whatever the fuck
I say, every day she be givin' it up

[Chorus: Nate Dogg]
(Now) Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me, come on, girl
Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me, ah, girl
Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me, come on, girl
Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me

[Verse 3: Eminem]
I'm a menace, a dentist, an oral hygienist
Open your mouth for about four or five minutes
Take a little bit of this fluoride rin-inse
Swish, but don't spit it; swallow it and now finish, yeah
Me and Nate D-o-double-g
Lookin' for a couple bitches with some double D's
Pop a little champagne and a couple E's
Slip it in her bubbly, we finna, finna have a
[Verse 4: Nate Dogg, Eminem, Nate Dogg & Eminem]
We 'bout to have a party (Turn the music up)
Let's get it started (Go 'head and shake your butt)
I'm lookin' fo' a girl I can fuck in my Hummer truck
Apple Bottom jeans and a big ol' butt
Some girls, they act retarded (Man, I told you–)
Some girls are 'bout it, 'bout it
I want a bitch to sit at the crib with no panties on
Knows that she can, but she won't say no
(Now) Look at this lady all in front of me
Sexy as can be
Tonight, I want a slut, would you be mine?
Heard you was freaky from a friend of mine
Now, I hope you don't get mad at me
But I told Nate you was a freak
He said he wants a slut, hope you don't mind
I told him how you like it from behind

[Chorus: Nate Dogg]
(Now) Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me, come on, girl
Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me, ah, girl
Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me, come on, girl
Shake that ass for me
Shake that ass for me
[Pre-Chorus: Nate Dogg]
We 'bout to have a party (Turn the music up)
Let's get it started (Go 'head and shake your butt)
I'm lookin' fo' a girl with a body and a sexy strut
Wanna get it poppin', baby? Step right up
Some girls, they act retarded
Some girls are 'bout it, 'bout it
I'm lookin' fo' a girl that will do whatever the fuck
I say, every day she be givin' it up

[Refrain: Nate Dogg & Eminem]
There she go, shakin' that ass on the flo'
Bumpin' and grindin' that pole
The way she's grindin' that pole
I think I'm losin' control

[Outro: Eminem]
God
And I ain't leavin' without you, bitch!
Comin' home with me!
And my boy, and his boy
And his boy
And his girl
Haha, Nate Dogg!

Title: Criminal
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-criminal-lyrics
Song Description: The final song on The Marshall Mathers LP, Criminal provides plenty of examples of and excuses for Ems violent rhetoric.

As Em explained in Angry Blonde:

Criminal was my new Still Dont Give a Fuck for The Marshall Mathers LP. Thats why I did the same intro as I did on the 'Still Dont Give A Fuck. Thats whyjust like Still Dont Give A Fuckits the last song on the record. It sums up the whole album.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
A lot of people ask me stupid fuckin' questions
A lot of people think that what I say on a record
Or what I talk about on a record
That I actually do in real life or that I believe in it
Or if I say that I wanna kill somebody
That I'm actually gonna do it or that I believe in it
Well, shit, if you believe that, then I'll kill you
You know why? 'Cause I'm a criminal!
Criminal! You're goddamn right
I'm a criminal! Yeah, I'm a criminal!
[Verse 1]
My words are like a dagger with a jagged edge
That'll stab you in the head, whether you're a fag or lez
Or a homosex, hermaph or a trans-a-vest
Pants or dress, hate fags? The answer's yes
Homophobic? Nah, you're just heterophobic
Starin' at my jeans, watchin' my genitals bulgin' (Ooh!)
That's my motherfuckin' balls, you'd better let go of 'em
They belong in my scrotum, you'll never get hold of 'em!
"Hey, it's me, Versace! Whoops, somebody shot me!
And I was just checkin' the mail, get it? Checkin' the male?"
How many records you expectin' to sell
After your second LP sends you directly to jail?
Come on, relax, guy! I like gay men
Right, Ken? Give me an amen! (A-men!)
"Please Lord, this boy needs Jesus
Heal this child, help us destroy these demons
Oh, and please send me a brand new car
And a prostitute while my wife's sick in the hospital"
Preacher, preacher! Fifth grade teacher!
You can't reach me, my mom can't neither
You can't teach me a goddamn thing 'cause
I watch TV and Comcast cable
And you ain't able to stop these thoughts
You can't stop me from toppin' these charts
And you can't stop me from droppin' each March
With a brand new CD for these fuckin' retards (Duh)
And to think, it's just little ol' me
Mr. Don't-Give-a-Fuck still won't leave
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
I'm a criminal!
'Cause every time I write a rhyme these people think it's a crime
To tell 'em what's on my mind, I guess I'm a criminal!
I don't gotta say a word, I just flip 'em the bird
And keep goin', I don't take shit from no one
I'm a criminal!
'Cause every time I write a rhyme these people think it's a crime
To tell 'em what's on my mind, I guess I'm a criminal!
I don't gotta say a word, I just flip 'em the bird
And keep goin', I don't take shit from no one

[Verse 2]
The mother did drugs, hard liquor, cigarettes and speed
The baby came out, disfigured ligaments, indeed
It was a seed who would grow up just as crazy as she
Don't dare make fun of that baby, 'cause that baby was me
I'm a criminal, an animal caged who turned crazed
But how the fuck you supposed to grow up when you weren't raised?
So as I got older and I got a lot taller
My dick shrunk smaller, but my balls got larger
I drank more liquor to fuck you up quicker
Than you'd wanna fuck me up for sayin' the word—
My morals went *thhbbpp* when the president got oral
Sex in his Oval Office on top of his desk off of his own employee
Now, don't ignore me, you won't avoid me
You can't miss me: I'm white, blonde-haired, and my nose is pointy
I'm the bad guy who makes fun of people that die
In plane crashes and laughs as long as it ain't happenin' to him
Slim Shady, I'm as crazy as Em-
-inem and Kim combined (The maniac's in)
In place of the Doctor 'cause Dre couldn't make it today
He's a little under the weather, so I'm takin' his place (Mm-mm-mmm!)
Oh, that's Dre with an AK to his face
Don't make me kill him too and spray his brains all over the place
I told you, Dre, you should've kept that thang put away
I guess that'll teach you not to let me play with it, eh?
I'm a criminal!
[Skit]
MEL-MAN: Aight, look
EMINEM: Uh-huh
MEL-MAN: Just go up in that motherfucker, get the motherfuckin' money and get the fuck up outta there
EMINEM: Aight
MEL-MAN: I'll be right here waitin' on you
EMINEM: Aight
MEL-MAN: Yo, Em
EMINEM: What?!
MEL-MAN: Don't kill nobody this time
EMINEM: Awwright… goddamn, this motherfucker gets on my fuckin' nerves!
{*Whistling*} How you doin'?
TELLER: Hi, how can I help you?
EMINEM: Yeah, I need to make a withdrawal
TELLER: Okay
EMINEM: Put the fuckin' money in the bag, bitch, and I won't kill you!
TELLER: What? Oh my God, don't kill me!
EMINEM: I'm not gonna kill you, bitch, quit lookin' around
TELLER: Don't kill me, I've got two kids at home don't kill me!
EMINEM: I said I'm not gonna fuckin' kill you
TELLER: Don't kill me!
EMINEM: Hurry the fuck up! {*Gunshot*} Thank you!
[Verse 3]
Windows tinted on my ride when I drive in it (Go, go, go!)
So when I rob a bank, run out and just dive in it
So I'll be disguised in it and if anybody identifies
The guy in it, I hide for five minutes
Come back, shoot the eyewitness
Fire at the private eye hired to pry in my business
Die bitches, bastards, brats, pets
This puppy's lucky I didn't blast his ass yet
If I ever gave a fuck, I'd shave my nuts
Tuck my dick in between my legs and cluck
You motherfuckin' chickens ain't brave enough
To say the stuff I say, so just tape it shut
Shit, half the shit I say, I just make it up
To make you mad, so kiss my white naked ass
And if it's not a rapper that I make it as
I'ma be a fuckin' rapist in a Jason mask
[Chorus]
I'm a criminal!
'Cause every time I write a rhyme these people think it's a crime
To tell 'em what's on my mind, I guess I'm a criminal!
I don't gotta say a word, I just flip 'em the bird
And keep goin', I don't take shit from no one
I'm a criminal!
'Cause every time I write a rhyme these people think it's a crime
To tell 'em what's on my mind, I guess I'm a criminal!
I don't gotta say a word, I just flip 'em the bird
And keep goin', I don't take shit from no one

[Chorus]
I'm a criminal!
'Cause every time I write a rhyme these people think it's a crime
To tell 'em what's on my mind, I guess I'm a criminal!
I don't gotta say a word, I just flip 'em the bird
And keep goin', I don't take shit from no one
I'm a criminal!
'Cause every time I write a rhyme these people think it's a crime
To tell 'em what's on my mind, I guess I'm a criminal!
I don't gotta say a word, I just flip 'em the bird
And keep goin', I don't take shit from no one

[Outro]
(I am) I'm a criminal!

Title: Unaccommodating
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-unaccommodating-lyrics
Song Description: On Unaccommodating, Eminem enlists Young M.A to discuss their unaccommodating manner, especially towards the media and critics.

The rappers' intense approach is similar to that of Kamikaze, with Eminem name-dropping various modern-day artists, while also bragging of his own superiority by comparing himself to Avengers villain Thanos and radical political leaders.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Young M.A & Eminem]
Oh, this what we doin'? Alright
M.A

[Verse 1: Young M.A]
I like a bitch that like to wobble, wobble
Shake it, shake it, break it, break it, uh
Nigga, we made it, made it, they hate it, hate it
Pro professional, pure persistent, I'm paper chasing
I hate complaining, I hated waiting, I'll pay for patience
But I hate to pay a bill (Hate that)
And I made a mil' without a major deal (I made that)
Yeah, her ass fake, but she came for real (She came, uh)
Money ain't a thing, that ain't a thing for real
It's the broke lingo (Huh)
And no, ain't nothing Saweetie, this is no Quavo (Migo)
Man, I just get high, let my hoes lay low (Ooh)
I just want some face but this is no facial (Ooh)
Do right and kill er'body, Drake mode (Hello)
Bitch, I'm tryna eat out, take your plate mode (Hello)
Disrespect that life and I'm in gang mode (Grrr)
You can leave this earth, bitch, I'm in rake mode (Huh)
I'm in cake mode (Huh), I'm in brave mode, uh
What up, Marshall? I'm a martian, I'm in Wayne mode (Facts)
Neck wet, big drip, I'm in rain mode (Drip, drip, drip)
Eight niggas, eight hittas, take eight souls (Brrr)
Collect pesos (Huh), and I'm paid, so? (Paid)
Self-made goals (Hey)
When the pain leaves (Huh)
Where does the pain go? (Where?)
Tip of the backwood is where the flame goes (There)
To the sky is where my brain goes (Wow)
Same pack, same fiend, sellin' the same clothes (Wow)
Pinocchio and my pistol, they got the same nose
Me and my niggas gotta eat, we share the same stove (What?)
Case closed, bodies in my lane, bitch, lane closed
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
Game over, Thanos on you H-O's
On my petty shit but I don't paint toes (Yeah)
Get the plunger (Plunger) 'cause Marshall and M.A go plum crazy
Call us liquid plumber, 'cause even Dre know (Dre know)
Beat knocks like a beefed up Detox
You're gonna need three squads of police officers at least to come pull me off of it and I don't stop
Please, dawg, I need y'all to keep talking shit 'cause I feed off of it
I am the complete opposite of these retards who spit these weak bars, I'ma leave carnage
Each thought'll be so toxic, it'll block the wind through your esophagus
Stop it, cutting off your oxygen
And I hit them pads like a boxing gym
Better watch for Slim, better get to popping and when I'm at the top again
I won't topple, I'm giving it to anyone who wanna come and get it and I'm not gonna stop
But when they ask me is the war finished with MGK? Of course it is
I cleansed him of his mortal sins, I'm God and the Lord forgives even the devil worshippers
I'm moving on but you know your scruples are gone when you're born with Lucifer's horns
And you're from the school of Notorious, Puba, Cube and The Poor Righteous Teachers tutored my students
Showed them all the blueprint and formula
But it seems like the more they studied my music, the more they remind me of eyeballs
I'm watching my pupils get cornier (Uh)
But I'm contemplating yelling "Bombs away" on the game
Like I'm outside of an Ariana Grande concert waiting

[Chorus: Eminem]
They call me Saddam Hussein, Ayatollah Khomeini
Where's Osama been? I been laden lately
Look at how I'm behaving, they want me gone away
They wanna JonBenét me (Fuck you), I'm unaccommodating
[Verse 3: Eminem]
Man, I don't see why they hate me (Huh?)
I'm a clown like John Wayne Gacy (What?)
They call me Kanye crazy (Yah)
APESHIT, Beyonce, Jay-Z (Woo)
And I'm back with Andre, baby (Yeah)
And the doctor's operating (What?)
But he never put no scrubs on from Snoop, K. Dot to Shady
Shady like a shadow or your silhouette, intellect, I better check to see why you feel upset
'Cause I met your bitch on the internet now I'm getting head like a Pillow Pet
That bimbo can put her lips all the way around this bone and then blow
Like a dusty cartridge from an old Nintendo
Those were the days but I bet you, I'm never gonna be broke again, no
I don't smoke but I got paper, to be blunt, I'm rolling Indo
And I keep it one comma, zero, zero, zero, zero
Real, real, real, murder, murder, murder, kill, kill, kill
Nickel-plated, twenty two, two, two
Bitch, shut the fuck up 'fore I shoot you too
Ain't shit I won't do just to get a few YouTube views
Run up in a church like pew, pew, pew
'Cause that's what I do, do, do
But, even to the untrained human eye
We ain't the same, you and I
Somebody should have explained to you why
For you to go against me, it's simply insane, you will die (Yeah)
That's why they call me Kamikaze, it's plain suicide, yeah
But I know magic and here go my last trick
I'm 'bout to say "Abracadabra" and pull a B Rabbit up out of my hat
I'm about to relapse and I betcha that you won't know how to react
But a look of disgust, I don't doubt it'd be that
As I begin to fuckin' devour the track
And you backpedal, that is a cowardly act
Like a Saudi attack when the towers collapsed
[Chorus: Eminem]
They call me Saddam Hussein, Ayatollah Khomeini
Where's Osama been? I been laden lately
Look at how I'm behaving, they want me gone away
They wanna JonBenét me (Fuck you), I'm unaccommodating193Embed

Title: Legacy
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-legacy-lyrics
Song Description: Speaking on this song with Rolling Stone, Eminem said:

I dont know if anyone will get this, like this is super-nerdy, but the rhyming words in that song never change. And thats just one of the things that I do to try to challenge myself. I wanted to try to make a whole song where the rhyming words never changed.

Indeed, the whole song as rhymes the vowel sounds of eye, aw, and in.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Polina]
Tell me where to go
Tell me what to do
I'll be right there for you
Tell me what to say
No matter if it's true
I'll say it all for you

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I used to be the type of kid
That would always think the sky is fallin'
Why am I so differently wired? Am I a martian?
What kind of twisted experiment am I involved in?
‘Cause I don't belong in this world
That's why I'm scoffin' at authority, defiant often
Flyin' off at the handle at my mom
No dad, so I am noncompliant at home
At school I'm just shy and awkward
And I don't need no goddamn psychologist
Tryna diagnose why I have all these underlyin' problems
Thinkin' he can try and solve 'em
I'm outside chalkin' up drawings
On the sidewalk and in the front drive talkin'
To myself, either that or inside hidin' off in
The corner somewhere quiet, tryin' not to
Be noticed ‘cause I'm cryin' and sobbin'
I had a bad day at school so I ain't talkin'
Some cocksucker shoved me into a fuckin' locker
‘Cause he said that I eye-balled him
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Polina & (Eminem)]
And if you fall, I'll get you there
I'll be your savior from (Yeah) all the wars
That are fought inside your world
Please have faith in my words
[Chorus: Polina]
‘Cause this is my legacy, legacy, yeah
This is my legacy, legacy, yeah
There's no guarantee
It's not up to me, we can only see
This is my legacy, legacy, legacy, legacy

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I used to be the type of kid that would always think the sky's fallin'
Why am I so differently wired in my noggin?
‘Cause sporadic as my thoughts come, it's mind-bogglin'
‘Cause I obsess on everything in my mind, small shit
Bothers me, but not my father, he said sayonara
Then split, but I don’t give a shit
I'm fine long as there's batteries in my Walkman
Nothing is the matter with me
Shit, look on the bright side, at least I ain't walkin'
I bike ride through the neighborhood of my apartment
Complex on a ten-speed which I've acquired parts that
I find in the garbage, a frame then put tires on it
Headphones on, look straight ahead if kids try and start shit
But if this is all there is for me life offers
Why bother even tryin' to put up a fight? It's nonsense
But I think a light bulb just lit up in my conscience
What about them rhymes I've been jottin'?
They are kind of giving me confidence
Instead of tryin' to escape through my comics
Why don't I just blast a little something like Onyx?
To put me in the mood to wanna fight and write songs that
Say what I wanna say to the kid that said that I eye-balled him
Grab hold of my balls, like, "That's right, fight's on, bitch!"
Who woulda knew, from the moment I turned the mic on, that
I could be iconic in my conquest?
That's word to Phife Dawg from A Tribe Called Quest
[Chorus: Polina]
This is my legacy, legacy, yeah
This is my legacy, legacy, yeah
There's no guarantee
It's not up to me, we can only see
This is my legacy, legacy, legacy, legacy

[Verse 3: Eminem]
I used to be the type of kid that would always think the sky's fallin'
Now I think the fact that I'm differently wired's awesome
‘Cause if I wasn't, I wouldn't be able to work words like this
And connect lines like crosswords
And use my enemy's words as strength
To try and draw from, and get inspired off 'em
‘Cause all my life I was told and taught I am not shit
By you wack fuckin' giant sacks of lyin' dog shit
Now you shut up, bitch, I am talkin'
Thought I was full of horseshit
And now you fuckin' worship the ground on which I am walkin'
Me against the world, so what? I'm Brian Dawkins
Versus the whole 0-16 Lions offense
So bring on the Giants, Falcons, and Miami Dolphins
It's the body bag game, bitch, I'm supplyin' coffins
‘Cause you dicks butt kiss, bunch of Brian Baldingers
You're gon' die a ball-licker, I've been diabolical
With this dialogue since '99 Rawkus
You don't respect the legacy I leave behind, y'all can
Suck a dick; the day you beat me, pigs'll fly out my ass
In a flyin' saucer full of Italian sausage
The most high exaltin' and I ain't haltin'
'Til I die of exhaustion, inhale my exhaust fumes
The best part about me is I am not you
I'm me, and I'm the Fire Marshall, and this is my—
[Chorus: Polina]
This is my legacy, legacy, yeah
This is my legacy, legacy, yeah
There's no guarantee
It's not up to me, we can only see
This is my legacy, legacy, legacy, legacy334Embed

Title: Gnat
Release Date: December 18, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-gnat-lyrics
Song Description: On Gnat, the third promotional single from Eminems Music to Be Murdered By project, the veteran rapper covers such topics as the COVID-19 pandemic, his former addiction to valium, and Donald Trumps administration.

The songs music video was directed by Cole Bennetts Lyrical Lemonade, who also shot the music video for the standard albums Godzilla back in January 2020. Upon the December 2020 release of Side B and the Gnat video, Cole tweeted:

new video with @eminem out now. it is a beautiful thing when you get to recreate nostalgic moments with your childhood heroes.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Yeah, yeah, sick
(d.a. got that dope)

[Chorus]
They say these bars are like COVID (Bars are like COVID; what?)
You get 'em right off the bat (You get 'em right off the bat; yeah)
Infected with SARS and Corona (Infected with SARS and Corona)
Like you took a bite off of that (You took a bite off of that; damn)
And it goes from martian to human (From martian to human; yeah)
That's how the virus attacks (That's how the virus attacks)
They come at me with machine guns (At me with machine guns; brr)
Like trying to fight off a gnat
[Verse 1]
Still stackin' my chips, hoes
Higher than Shaq on his tiptoes
Atop the Empire State Buildin'
This shit is like child's play, childrеn
I will anni-nihilate, kill them
I'll fuck around and pile еight million
Dead little juveniles, wait, chill, then
I'll await my trial date 'til then (What?)
Ain't nothin' you say could ever trump (Nah), mic, pencil get killed (Yeah)
If you're hypersensitive, I wasn't referencin' the vice president, chill (Chill)
I mean my penmanship at times tends to get ill, violence but with skill
That's why I hence when I write ends up with the mic and pencil gettin' killed (Haha, yeah, hold up)
And I'm still ride or die for the squad (Yeah)
So you know which side that I'm on
If a battle line's ever drawn, but if I get involved
It'll be like K9's in a brawl
But not similar to Mike Vick at all
'Cause even if I don't have a dog in the fight
They ain't never gonna get rid of the fight in the dog (Fight in the dog)
Got stripes like a tiger, so you might get mauled, a mic in the palms
Like claws, I can swing right for your jaw
And rip it off with one swipe of the paw
Bitch, you still on my dick or nah? (Nah)
If I suck, your wife is a straw (Straw)
I'm sick and I'm not gonna cover my mouth next time that I cough 'cause
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
They say these bars are like COVID (Bars are like COVID; what?)
You get 'em right off the bat (You get 'em right off the bat; yeah)
Infected with SARS and Corona (Infected with SARS and Corona)
Like you took a bite off of that (You took a bite off of that; damn)
And it goes from martian to human (From martian to human; yeah)
That's how the virus attacks (That's how the virus attacks)
They come at me with machine guns (At me with machine guns; brr)
Like trying to fight off a gnat (Like trying to fight off a gnat; yeah, yeah)

[Verse 2]
And d.a. got that dope he sends to me (Uh-huh)
It's like pneumonia symptoms and contracting COVID instantly
Which is what separates my flow from theirs
So that no one gets even close to this to pose a risk to me
So vocalistically (What?), that's social distancing (Yeah)
Flow going viral, you best stay strapped
With that Lysol and get way back (Shh)
Get that Pine-Sol and that Ajax
'Cause this dry cough is just like football umpires callin' a playback
Bitch, back the fuck up like fifteen yards, these rhymes call for a face mask (Face mask)
'Nother fourteen-day quarantine, they're cordoning off everything
This shit lookin' like a horror scene, like me metaphorically (Damn)
'Cause them stay-at-home orders seem
Like they just keep getting more extreme
Who knows when this nightmare will end (Marilyn)? Like Monroe, Norma Jean (Norma Jean)
Still got that heroin lyrical drip with that morphine and that Thorazine
'Cause I'm so fuckin' dope (Dope) and you're a fiend
And that's the one thing that hasn't changed (Nope)
For some semblance of normalcy
But I might need that Hydrochloroquine 'cause I got that (Yeah)
The Dark Horse, I'm a knight-mare
Mom fed me Valium like air (Mmm)
Thought that's why they called it a high chair (Woah)
I got a contact like eyewear (Woah)
Wait a minute, bitch, let me lie here (Uh)
20/20 hindsight in my side mirror
Every year, you drop the ball like Times Square
My hair trigger whenever I get an idea's
Like, fuck, now my name rings out like a sponge mop
And my drip was a drop
In the bucket, so that gun shot
You just heard just now in that one spot
Just came from the nine mil' that I just got
That's big bucks and I got a full money clip and I'm loaded
I ain't even mean to go the fuck off
And I'm still totally inappropriate with an opiate
Groping it while I'm holding it like a trophy
I'm hoping a little codeine'll get me OD'in'
Woah, everything is slow, I begin to floating
I know that I'm getting loaded, the pen exploded
Hiroshima with the flows, a utopia
With the dope, I'm an OG, I'm like the G.O.A.T.​
Here to get your goat little bit of sodium, it's assault (A salt)
When I'm at the podium, at your throat, holy camoly
I'm in the zone with the shit I'm on
Get Imodium and a commode because nobody's even close
You're petroleum to plutonium, you're a phony
I'm at the crib with your ho
Got her at the pole like voting with no clothing
Stripped down to a toe ring and here we go with the gloating
I've got my nose in the air like a Boeing
Then I got into a little bit of an argument with her
So I took a little lick of a Klonopin at dinner
Then I hit her with the motherfucking ottoman and bit her
Then I shot her in the liver, delivered her to the bottom of the river (Dope)
But I'm probably gon' jump in the water with her
With a wad of money 'cause I got a lot of it
And when it come to drippin', I be soppin' like a hundred mile an hour
Never runnin' out of either one of 'em, I gotta get it 'cause
[Chorus]
They say these bars are like COVID (Bars are like COVID; what?)
You get 'em right off the bat (You get 'em right off the bat; yeah)
Infected with SARS and Corona (Infected with SARS and Corona)
Like you took a bite off of that (You took a bite off of that; damn)
And it goes from martian to human (From martian to human; yeah)
That's how the virus attacks (That's how the virus attacks)
They come at me with machine guns (At me with machine guns; brr)
It's like trying to fight off a gnat (Fight off a gnat)

Title: White America
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-white-america-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem, a virtually unknown rapper, rocketed to fame with his debut album The Slim Shady LP. And while his talent cannot be denied, his success brought with it a vicious assault against him  some from the highest levels of American government.

Eminem has triggered countless amounts of conversations and arguments, not only because of his incessant controversy, but also because of his presence in a music genre excessively associated with African Americans. At the top of his career, from 1999 to about 2003, he also received a lot of resentment, due to the attention and honour he had received from the entertainment establishment, which was unlike what any other black hip hop artist had ever received at the time. In White America, Eminem even acknowledges himself that the continuous positive reception he had received from consumers, and particularly critics and the media was primarily because of complexion, and not only his dexterity.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RZIzD0ZfTFg
In the critical song, Eminem meticulously points out conspicuous inconsistencies in the social structure of the United States, particularly its censorship of freedom of speech and the prevalent racial discrimination in the entertainment establishment, specifically between white people and African Americans. It apprises the listeners with the United States Governments contradictions and how Eminem, as a white male, was deliberately placed as a vanguard for hip hop; a music genre dominated and originated by African Americans, simply because of his white skin color and not only his artistry.

The attempts to censor Eminem were based on the fear of his influence on American children and came mostly from white, suburban people who had not paid attention to rap before. This song was part of Eminems response to the bitter controversy, Congressional hearing and censorship his lyrics caused when they hit the mainstream White American audience.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
(The white zone is for immediate loading and unloading of passengers only, no parking)
America! Ha ha ha! We love you
How many people are proud to be citizens
Of this beautiful country of ours, the stripes and the stars
For the rights that men have died for to protect?
The women and men who have broke their necks
For the freedom of speech the United States government has sworn to uphold… or so we're told
(Yo, I want everybody to listen to the words of this song)

[Verse 1]
I never would've dreamed in a million years I'd see
So many motherfuckin' people who feel like me
Who share the same views and the same exact beliefs
It's like a fuckin' army marchin' in back of me
So many lives I touched, so much anger aimed
In no particular direction, just sprays and sprays
And straight through your radio waves, it plays and plays
'Til it stays stuck in your head for days and days
Who would've thought standin' in this mirror, bleachin' my hair
With some peroxide, reachin' for a t-shirt to wear
That I would catapult to the forefront of rap like this?
How could I predict my words would have an impact like this?
I must've struck a chord with somebody up in the office
'Cause Congress keep tellin' me I ain't causin' nothin' but problems
And now they're sayin' I'm in trouble with the government
I'm lovin' it, I shoveled shit all my life, and now I'm dumpin' it on
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
White America, I could be one of your kids
White America, Little Eric looks just like this
White America, Erica loves my shit
I go to TRL, look how many hugs I get (Yo)
White America, I could be one of your kids
White America, Little Eric looks just like this
White America, Erica loves my shit
I go to TRL, look how many hugs I get

[Verse 2]
Look at these eyes, baby blue, baby just like yourself
If they were brown, Shady'd lose, Shady sits on the shelf
But Shady's cute, Shady knew Shady's dimples would help
Make ladies swoon, baby, Ooh, baby! Look at my sales
Let's do the math: If I was Black, I would've sold half
I ain't have to graduate from Lincoln High School to know that
But I could rap, so fuck school, I'm too cool to go back
Give me the mic, show me where the fuckin' studio's at
When I was underground, no one gave a fuck I was White
No labels wanted to sign me, almost gave up, I was like
"Fuck it," until I met Dre, the only one to look past
Gave me a chance and I lit a fire up under his ass
Helped him get back to the top, every fan Black that I got
Was probably his in exchange for every White fan that he's got
Like damn, we just swapped, sittin' back lookin' at shit, wow
I'm like my skin is it startin' to work to my benefit now? It's—
[Chorus]
White America, I could be one of your kids
White America, Little Eric looks just like this
White America, Erica loves my shit
I go to TRL, look how many hugs I get (Yo)
White America, I could be one of your kids
White America, Little Eric looks just like this
White America, Erica loves my shit
I go to TRL, look how many hugs I get

[Verse 3]
See, the problem is, I speak to suburban kids
Who otherwise would've never knew these words exist
Whose moms probably would've never gave two squirts of piss
'Til I created so much motherfuckin' turbulence
Straight out the tube, right into your livin' rooms I came
And kids flipped when they knew I was produced by Dre
That's all it took, and they were instantly hooked right in
And they connected with me too because I looked like them
That's why they put my lyrics up under this microscope
Searchin' with a fine tooth comb, it's like this rope
Waitin' to choke, tightenin' around my throat
Watchin' me while I write this, like, "I don't like this note!"
All I hear is: lyrics, lyrics, constant controversy
Sponsors workin' 'round the clock to try to stop my concerts early
Surely hip-hop was never a problem in Harlem, only in Boston
After it bothered the fathers of daughters startin' to blossom
So now I'm catchin' the flak from these activists when they raggin'
Actin' like I'm the first rapper to smack a bitch or say "faggot," shit
Just look at me like I'm your closest pal
The poster child, the motherfuckin' spokesman now, for—
[Chorus]
White America, I could be one of your kids
White America, Little Eric looks just like this
White America, Erica loves my shit
I go to TRL, look how many hugs I get! (Yo)
White America, I could be one of your kids
White America, Little Eric looks just like this
White America, Erica loves my shit
I go to TRL, look how many hugs I get

[Outro]
So to the parents of America, I am the Derringer
Aimed at little Erica to attack her character
The ringleader of this circus of worthless pawns
Sent to lead the march right up to the steps of Congress
And piss on the lawns of the White House
To burn the *galf*​​ and replace it with a Parental Advisory sticker
To spit liquor in the faces of this democracy of hypocrisy
Fuck you, Ms. Cheney! Fuck you, Tipper Gore!
Fuck you with the freest of speech this Divided States of Embarrassment will allow me to have! Fuck you!
Ha ha ha, I'm just playin', America
You know I love you128Embed

Title: Guts Over Fear
Release Date: August 25, 2014, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-guts-over-fear-lyrics
Song Description: On this track Eminem contemplates his legacy and career. He dwells on the feeling that he has no emotion left and that he is singing the same old song. He regrets the pain he has caused others with his pen and he expresses the feeling that his career is coming to a close. It should be noted that he uses the same rhyme scheme throughout both verses.

Just like Beautiful Pain, this song both features Sia and was produced by Emile. Both songs also show a softer side of Eminem we dont really see. In his other songs he isnt as sympathetic and understanding.

ShadyXVs lead single was used for The Equalizers trailer, and plays during the credits. The official music video was released along with the album on November 24th, 2014.
Lyrics:

[Refrain: Eminem]
Feels like a close, it's comin' to
Fuck am I gonna do?
It's too late to start over
This is the only thing I—, thing I know

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Sometimes I feel like all I ever do is find different ways to word the same old song
Ever since I came along from the day the song called Hi, My Name Is dropped
Started thinkin' my name was Fault
'Cause any time things went wrong, I was the one who they would blame it on
The media made me the equivalent of a modern-day Genghis Khan
Tried to argue it was only entertainment, dawg
Gangster? Nah, courageous balls
Had to change my style
They said I'm way too soft and I sound like AZ and Nas
Out came the claws and the fangs been out since then
But up until the instant that I went against it
It was ingrained in me that I wouldn't amount to a shit stain, I thought
No wonder I had to unlearn everything my brain was taught
"Do I really belong in this game?" I pondered
I just wanna play my part
Should I make waves or not? So back and forth in my brain the tug of war wages on
And I don't wanna seem ungrateful or disrespect the art form I was raised upon
But sometimes you gotta take a loss and have people rub it in your face
Before you get made pissed off
And keep plugging, it's your only outlet, and your only outfit
So you know they gonna talk about it, better find a way to counter it quick
And make it—, ah
Feel like I've already said this a ka-billion eighty times
How many times can I say the same thing different ways that rhyme?
What I really wanna say is, if there's anyone else that can relate to my story
Bet you feel the same way I felt when I was in the same place you are, when I was afraid to—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Sia & Eminem]
I was a—, afraid to make a single sound
Afraid I would never find a way out, out, out
Afraid I'd never be found (My dreams)
I didn't wanna go another round (Yeah)
An angry man's power will shut you up (Agh)
And trip wires fill this house with tip-toed love
Run out of excuses for everyone
So here I am and I will not run (Yeah)

[Chorus: Sia]
Guts over fear (The time is near)
Guts over fear (Might shed a tear)
For all the times I let you push me 'round
I let you keep me down (Now, I got)
Guts over fear, guts over fear

[Bridge: Eminem]
Feels like a close, it's comin' to
Fuck am I gonna do?
It's too late to start over
This is the only thing I—, thing I know

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I know what it was like, I was there once
Single parents, hate your appearance
Did you struggle to find your place in this world?
And the pain spawns all the anger on
But it wasn't 'til I put the pain in song
Learned who to aim it on, that I made a spark
Started to spit harder shit, learned how to harness it while the reins were off
And there was a lot of bizarre shit
But the crazy part was soon as I stopped sayin' I gave a fuck
Haters started to appreciate my art
And it just breaks my heart to look at all the pain I caused
But what am I gonna do when the rage is gone?
And the lights go out in that trailer park? (Oh)
And the window is closin', and there's nowhere else that I can go with flows, and I'm frozen
'Cause there's no more emotion for me to pull from
Just a bunch of playful songs that I make for fun
So, to the break of dawn, here I go recyclin' the same old song
But I'd rather make Not Afraid two
Than make another motherfuckin' We Made You, ah
Now, I don't wanna seem indulgent when I discuss my lows and my highs
My demise and my uprise, pray to God
I just open enough eyes later on and gave you the supplies and the tools
To hopefully use that'll make you strong enough to lift yourself up, when you feel like I felt
'Cause I can't explain to y'all how dang exhausted my legs felt
Just havin' to balance my dang self
When on eggshells, I was made to walk
But thank you, Ma, 'cause that gave me the
Strength to cause Shady-mania
So when they empty that stadium
Least I made it out of that house and found a place in this world when the day was done
So this is for every kid who all's they ever did was dreamt of one day just gettin' accepted
I represent him or her, anyone similar
You are the reason that I made this song
And everything you're scared to say, don't be afraid to say no more
From this day forward, just let them a-holes talk, take it with a grain of salt
And eat their fuckin' faces off
The legend of the angry blonde lives on through you when I'm gone
And to think I was a—
[Pre-Chorus: Sia & Eminem]
I was a—, afraid to make a single sound
Afraid I would never find a way out, out, out
Afraid I'd never be found (My dreams)
I didn't wanna go another round (Yeah)
An angry man's power will shut you up (Agh)
And trip wires fill this house with tip-toed love
Run out of excuses for everyone
So here I am and I will not run (Yeah)

[Chorus: Sia]
Guts over fear (The time is near)
Guts over fear (Might shed a tear)
For all the times I let you push me 'round
I let you keep me down (Now, I got)
Guts over fear, guts over fear1KEmbed

Title: I’m Back
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-im-back-lyrics
Song Description: After The Slim Shady LP, Eminems alter-ego is back for more.

A rather unknown fact is that the song Im Back is actually the fourth single of the album.
Lyrics:

[Chorus]
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady-Shady!)

[Verse 1]
I murder a rhyme, one word at a time
You never heard of a mind as perverted as mine
You better get rid of that 9, it ain't gonna help
What good's it gonna do against a man that strangles himself?
I'm waitin' for Hell, like Hell, shit, I'm anxious as Hell
Manson, you're safe in that cell, be thankful it's jail
I used to be my mommy's little angel at twelve
Thirteen, I was puttin' shells in a gauge on a shelf
I used to get punked and bullied on my block
'Til I cut a kitten's head off and stuck it in this kid's mailbox
(Hey Ma', Ma'!)
I used to give a fuck, now I could give a fuck less
What do I think of success? It sucks, too much press
I'm stressed, too much cess, depressed, too upset
It's just too much mess, I guess I must just blew up quick (Yes)
Grew up quick (No), was raised right
Whatever you say is wrong, whatever I say's right
You think of my name now whenever you say, "Hi"
Became a commodity 'cause I'm W-H-I-
T-E, 'cause MTV was so friendly to me
Can't wait 'til Kim sees me
Now, is it worth it? Look at my life, how is it perfect?
Read my lips, bitch! What, my mouth isn't workin'?
You hear this finger? Oh, it's upside down
Here, let me turn this motherfucker up right now
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (Shady!)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
[Verse 2]
I take each individual degenerate's head and reach into it
Just to see if he's influenced by me, if he listens to music
And if he feeds into this shit, he's an innocent victim
And becomes a puppet on the string of my tennis shoe
(*Scratches*) My name is Slim Shady
I been crazy way before radio didn't play me
The sensational (*scratch*), "Back is the incredible!"
With Ken Kaniff, who just finds the men edible
It's Ken Kaniff on the Internet
Tryin' to lure your kids with him into bed (Uh)
It's a sick world we live in these days
"Slim, for Pete's sakes, put down Christopher Reeve's legs!" ("Oh, oh, oh, oh!")
Geez, you guys are so sensitive
"Slim, it's a touchy subject, try and just don't mention it"
Mind with no sense in it, fried schizophrenic whose eyes get so squinted
I'm blind from smoke in 'em with my windows tinted
With nine limos rented, doin' lines of coke in 'em
With a bunch of guys hoppin' out, all high and indo-scented
And that's where I get my name from
That's why they call me—
[Chorus]
They call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back (Back) (Slim Shady!)

[Verse 3]
I take seven {kids} from {Columbine}, stand 'em all in line
Add an AK-47, a revolver, a .9
A MAC-11 and it oughta solve the problem of mine
And that's a whole school of bullies shot up all at one time (Ahh-! Ahh-ahh-!)
'Cause I'm Shady, they call me as crazy
As the world was over this whole Y2K thing
And by the way, NSYNC, why do they sing?
Am I the only one who realizes they stink?
Should I dye my hair pink and care what y'all think
Lip sync and buy a bigger size of earrings?
It's why I tend to block out when I hear things
'Cause all these fans screamin' is makin' my ears ring (Ahh!)
So I just throw up a middle finger and let it linger
Longer than the rumor that I was stickin' it to Christina
'Cause if I ever stuck it to any singer in showbiz
It'd be Jennifer Lopez and Puffy, you know this
I'm sorry, Puff, but I don't give a fuck
If this chick was my own mother, I'd still fuck her with no rubber
And cum inside her and have a son and a new brother
At the same time and just say that it ain't mine—what's my name?
[Chorus]
I'm Slim Shady (*scratch*- Slim, I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back
That's why they call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (*scratch*- I'm back), I'm back (I'm- *scratch*- I'm back)  (Slim Shady!)
That's why they call me Slim Shady (*scratches* Slim, I'm back)
I'm back (I'm back), I'm back
They call me Slim Shady (I'm back)
I'm back (*scratch* I'm back), I'm back

[Outro]
Guess who's b-back, back
Gue-gue-guess who's back (Hi, Mom!)
{​​*scratch*}​​ Guess who's back
{​​*scratch*}​​ Gue— {​​*scratch*}​​ guess who's back
D-12 {​​*scratch*}​​ guess who's back
Gue, gue-gue-gue, guess who's back
Dr. Dre {​​*scratch*}​​ guess who's back
Back back {​​*scratch*}​​ back {​​*scratch*}​​
Slim Shady, 2001
I'm blew out from this blunt (*sighs*) fuck165Embed

Title: FACK
Release Date: December 6, 2005, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-fack-lyrics
Song Description: This song is featured on Eminems greatest hits collection titled Curtain Call: The Hits.

The song is widely viewed by Eminems critics as one of his worst. He does acknowledge this criticism, and goes so far as to joke about it in his song Shady XV, released some ten years later:

And perform Fack in concert
[Fack plays]
Yo, I put that shit on a greatest hits album
Now that was awesome
It takes some massive balls to do some shit like that

He also references it on the song Kamikaze from his tenth album of the same name.

Em actually performed the hook to this song in concert at Lollapalooza Brazil in March 2016.

The clean version of the album completely omits this song and the intro, instead using My Name Is and The Way I Am as the beginning tracks.
Lyrics:

[Chorus]
Ow, ow, ow (Oh, goddamn)
I'm gonna facking cum (Oh, shit)
Fack, fack, fack (Fuck, I am)
I am, I'm going to cum (I'm cumming)
[Verse 1]
(Oh, yeah, God) I never seen no chick like this
This bitch can twist like a damn contortionist
Condom on my dick? Of course it is
This bitch don't know what abortion is
So I can't cum in her, fucks like a porn star
Looks like Jenna, fack, I'm gonna
Cum, I think my rubber's comin' off
But, oh, it's so fucking wet and soft
Fuck, I'm gonna start lettin' off
I'm squirting and she's not gettin' off
And she's on top, I'm gonna facking
Oh, God, oh, don't do that
Don't, stop, stop, don't, I don't mean "don't stop"
Ow, wait a minute, ow, ow, fuck
I, I'm gonna fucking cum (*Squirt squirt squirt*)

[Chorus]
Ow, ow, ow (Oh, goddamn)
I'm gonna fucking cum (Oh, shit)
Fack, fack, fack (Fuck, I am)
I am, I'm going to cum (I'm cumming)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
(Oh, yeah, God) Ooh, wow, boom that pow
Ooh, ow, I need a cigarette now
Ow, I'm so fucking hot
And you're so fucking hot
Oh my God, I wanna facking fack
No, not "fuck," I said "fack"
F-A-C-K, F-A-C-K
Fack, fack, fack, facking freak me
Oh yeah, girl, see, baby, they call me Mr. Freaky
Let's call your sister, three-way
Have some threesome, me so horny
And you're such a fucking babe
I wanna go down on you—fuck, you shaved?
Oh, goddamn, here I go again
I'm gonna cum, I am

[Chorus]
Ow, ow, ow (Oh, goddamn)
I'm gonna facking cum (Oh, shit)
Fack, fack, fack (Fuck, I am)
I am, I'm going to cum (I'm cumming)

[Interlude]
I'm Slim Shady, uh, uh, uh
I'm Slim Shady, uh, uh, uh
I'm Slim Shady, uh, uh, uh
I'm Slim Shady, uh, uh, uh
[Verse 3]
Okay, I'm done, I already came twice
You ain't gonna make me cum
I'm all outta gas, not so fast
Uh, your finger just went in my ass
Ow, that hurts, take it out now!
Oh, wait a minute, aw
Put it back in, in, in, in
This don't mean I'm gay, I don't like men
I like boobs, boobs, boobs
Now, see that gerbil? Grab that tube
Shove it up my butt
Let that little rascal nibble on my asshole, uhh
Yeah, right there, right there
Ahh, I'm cumming, oh, yeah
Fack, I just came again
Okay, pull it out now, enhh
Oh, fuck yeah
Wait, he's not out, he's still crawling around up there
Ow, fuck, I think it's stuck
Ow, but it feels so fucking good

[Chorus]
Ow, ow, ow (Oh, goddamn)
I'm gonna facking cum (Oh, shit)
Fack, fack, fack (Fuck, I am)
I am, I'm going to cum (I'm cumming)
[Outro]
Shove a gerbil in your ass through a tube
Shove a gerbil in your ass through a tube
Shove a gerbil in your ass through a tube
Shove a gerbil in your ass through a tube
Ew, ew, ew, ew139Embed

Title: Role Model
Release Date: February 23, 1999, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-role-model-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem himself talked about this song in the book The Angry Blonde saying:

I was just fucking around when I made this song. To me its just a rap record. The message behind it was just complete sarcasm. I wanted to be clear: Dont look at me like Im a fucking role model. Dre and I were in the studio at his house, and he had made the track first. I had started a rhyme the night before and I hadnt finished it yet. When I heard the track, I said "Yo Dre, I got a rhyme that goes with that I finished the rhyme and started writing the song in the studio. I finished the first verse, knocked out the second verse, and then I wrote a hook. Then Mel-Man thought of the part that goes Dont you wanna grow up to be just like me? I said Yo thats perfect, cause I was talking about the same shit. You know, smoke weed, take pills, drop out of school and all that shit, So he had that part of the hook and I filled in all the blanks. I came to the club drunk with a fake ID / Dont you wanna grow up to be just like me! This was one of the first three songs I did with Dre when we began working together.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Okay, I'm going to attempt to drown myself
You can try this at home
You can be just like me
Mic check, one-two, we recordin'?

[Verse 1]
I'm cancerous, so when I diss, you wouldn't wanna answer this
If you responded back with a battle rap you wrote for Canibus
I'll strangle you to death, then I'll choke you again
And break your fuckin' legs 'til your bones poke through your skin
You beef with me, I'ma even the score equally
Take you on Jerry Springer and beat your ass legally
I get too blunted off of funny home grown
'Cause when I smoke out, I hit the trees harder than Sonny Bono
(Oh no) So if I said I never did drugs
That would mean I lie and get fucked more than the President does
Hilary Clinton tried to slap me and call me a pervert
I ripped her fuckin' tonsils out and fed her sherbet (Bitch)
My nerves hurt, and lately I'm on edge
Grabbed Vanilla Ice and ripped out (C'mere) his blond dreads (Fuck you)
Every girl I ever went out with has gone les'
Follow me and do exactly what the song says
Smoke weed, take pills, drop out of school, kill people
And drink, jump behind the wheel like it was still legal
I'm dumb enough to walk in a store and steal
So I'm dumb enough to ask for a date with Lauryn Hill
Some people only see that I'm white, ignorin' skill
'Cause I stand out like a green hat with a orange bill
But I don't get pissed, y'all don't even see through the mist
How the fuck can I be white? I don't even exist
I get a clean shave, bathe, go to a rave
Die from an overdose and dig myself up out of my grave
My middle finger won't go down, how do I wave?
And this is how I'm supposed to teach kids how to behave?
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Now, follow me and do exactly what you see
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I slap women and eat shrooms, then OD
Now, don't you want to grow up to be just like me?

[Verse 2]
Me and Marcus Allen went over to see Nicole
When we heard a knock at the door, must've been Ron Gold
Jumped behind the door, put the orgy on hold
Killed them both, then smeared blood on the white Bronco
(We did it) My mind won't work if my spine don't jerk
I slapped Garth Brooks out of his rhinestone shirt
I'm not a player, just a ill rhyme sayer
That'll spray a aerosol can up at the ozone layer
My rap style's warped, I'm runnin' out the morgue
With your dead grandmother's corpse to throw it on your porch
Jumped in a Chickenhawk cartoon with a cape on
And beat up Foghorn Leghorn with an acorn
I'm 'bout as normal as Norman Bates with deformative traits
A premature birth that was four minutes late
Mother, are you there? I love you
I never meant to hit you over the head with that shovel (That shovel)
Will someone please explain to my brain
That I just severed the main vein with a chainsaw and I'm in pain?
I take a breather and sigh, either I'm high or I'm nuts
'Cause if you ain't tiltin' this room, neither am I
So when you see your mom with a thermometer shoved in her ass
Then it probably is obvious I got it on with her
'Cause when I drop this solo shit, it's over with
I bought Cage's tape, opened it, and dubbed over it
[Chorus]
I came to the club drunk with a fake ID
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I've been with ten women who got HIV
Now, don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I got genital warts and it burns when I pee
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I tie a rope around my penis and jump from a tree
You probably wanna grow up to be just like me131Embed

Title: 8 Mile
Release Date: October 29, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-8-mile-lyrics
Song Description: Off the soundtrack to the semi-autobiographical 8 Mile, Eminem tells a story similar to what goes on throughout the movie. It is the story of the troubles one goes through trying to make it big time.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
It's alright, it's okay
I'm gonna make it anyway
Gonna make it, can't give up now
I'ma make it somehow

[Verse 1]
Sometimes I just feel like quittin', I still might
Why do I put up this fight? Why do I still write?
Sometimes it's hard enough just dealin' with real life
Sometimes I wanna jump on stage and just kill mics
And show these people what my level of skill's like
But I'm still white, sometimes I just hate life
Somethin' ain't right, hit the brake lights
Case of the stage fright, drawin' a blank like
Da-duh-duh-da-da, it ain't my fault
Great big eyeballs, my insides crawl
And I clam up, I just slam shut
I just can't do it, my whole manhood's
Just been stripped, I have just been 'vict'd
So I must then get off the bus then split
Man, fuck this shit, yo, I'm goin' the fuck home
World on my shoulders as I run back to this 8 Mile Road

[Chorus]
I'm a man, I'ma make a new plan
(It's alright, it's okay)
Time for me to just stand up and travel new land
(I'm gonna make it anyway)
Time for me to just take matters into my own hands
(Gonna make it, can't give up now)
Once I'm over these tracks, man, I'ma never look back
(I'ma make it somehow)
(8 Mile Road) And I'm gone, I know right where I'm goin'
(It's alright, it's okay)
Sorry, Momma, I'm grown, I must travel alone
(I'm gonna make it anyway)
Ain't gon' follow no footsteps, I'm makin' my own
(Gonna make it, can't give up now)
Only way that I know how to escape from this 8 Mile Road
(I'ma make it somehow)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
I'm walkin' these train tracks, tryna regain back
The spirit I had 'fore I go back to the same crap
To the same plant, in the same pants
Tryna chase rap, gotta move ASAP
And get a new plan, Momma's got a new man
Poor little baby sister, she don't understand
Sits in front of the TV, buries her nose in the pad
And just colors until the crayon gets dull in her hand
While she colors her big brother and mother and dad
Ain't no tellin' what really goes on in her little head
Wish I could be the daddy that neither one of us had
But I keep runnin' from somethin' I never wanted so bad
Sometimes I get upset, ‘cause I ain't blew up yet
It's like I grew up, but I ain't grow me two nuts yet
Don't gotta rep my step, don't got enough pep
The pressure's too much, man, I'm just tryna do what's best
And I try, sit alone and I cry
Yo, I won't tell no lie, not a moment goes by
That I don't pray to the sky, please, I'm beggin' you, God
Please don't let me be pigeonholed in no regular job
Yo, I hope you can hear me, homie, wherever you are
Yo, I'm tellin' you, dawg, I'm bailin' this trailer tomorrow
Tell my mother I love her, kiss baby sister goodbye
Say whenever you need me, baby, I'm never too far
But, yo, I gotta get out there, the only way I know
And I'ma be back for you the second that I blow
On everything I own, I'll make it on my own
Off to work I go back to this 8 Mile Road
[Chorus]
I'm a man, gotta make a new plan
(It's alright, it's okay)
Time for me to just stand up and travel new land
(I'm gonna make it anyway)
Time for me to just take matters into my own hands
(Gonna make it, can't give up now)
Once I'm over these tracks, man, I'ma never look back
(I'ma make it somehow)
(8 Mile Road) And I'm gone, I know right where I'm goin'
(It's alright, it's okay)
Sorry, Momma, I'm grown, I must travel alone
(I'm gonna make it anyway)
Ain't gon' follow no footsteps, I'm makin' my own
(Gonna make it, can't give up now)
Only way that I know how to escape from this 8 Mile Road
(I'ma make it somehow)

[Verse 3]
You gotta live it to feel it; you didn't, you wouldn't get it
Or see what the big deal is, why it was and it still is
To be walkin' this borderline of Detroit city limits
It's different, it's a certain significance, a certificate
Of authenticity, you'd never even see
But it's everything to me, it's my credibility
You never seen, heard, smelled or met a real MC
Who's incredible or on the same pedestal as me
But yet I'm still unsigned, havin' a rough time
Sit on the porch with all my friends and kick dumb rhymes
Go to work and serve MCs in the lunchline
But when it comes crunch time, where do my punchlines go?
Who must I show to bust my flow?
Where must I go? Who must I know?
Or am I just another crab in the bucket?
‘Cause I ain't havin' no luck with this little rabbit's foot, fuck it
Maybe I need a new outlet, I'm startin' to doubt shit
I'm feelin' a little skeptical who I hang out with
I look like a bum, yo, my clothes ain't about shit
At the Salvation Army, tryna salvage an outfit
And it's cold, tryna travel this road
Plus I feel like I'm always stuck in this battlin' mode
My defenses are so up, but one thing I don't want
Is pity from no one, this city is no fun
There is no sun, and it's so dark
Sometimes I feel like I'm just bein' pulled apart
From each one of my limbs, by each one of my friends
It's enough to just make me wanna jump out of my skin
Sometimes I feel like a robot, sometimes I just know not
What I'm doin', I just blow, my head is a stove top
I just explode, the kettle gets so hot
Sometimes my mouth just overloads the ass that I don't got
But I've learned, it's time for me to U-turn
Yo, it only takes one time for me to get burned
Ain't no fallin', no, next time I meet a new girl
I can no longer play stupid or be immature
I got every ingredient, all I need is the courage
Like I already got the beat, all I need is the words
Got the urge, suddenly it's a surge
Suddenly a new burst of energy has occurred
Time to show these Free World leaders the three and a third
I am no longer scared now, I'm free as a bird
Then I turn and cross over the median curb
Hit the 'burbs and all you see is a blur from 8 Mile Road
[Chorus]
I'm a man, gotta make a new plan
(It's alright, it's okay)
Time for me to just stand up and travel new land
(I'm gonna make it anyway)
Time for me to just take matters into my own hands
(Gonna make it, can't give up now)
Once I'm over these tracks, man, I'ma never look back
(I'ma make it somehow)
(8 Mile Road) And I'm gone, I know right where I'm goin'
(It's alright, it's okay)
Sorry, Momma, I'm grown, I must travel alone
(I'm gonna make it anyway)
Ain't gon' follow no footsteps, I'm makin' my own
(Gonna make it, can't give up now)
Only way that I know how to escape from this 8 Mile Road
(I'ma make it somehow)

Title: Ass Like That
Release Date: November 12, 2004, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-ass-like-that-lyrics
Song Description: In what many consider to be a low point in Eminems career, this hit single from 2004s Encore features an India-flavored beat while Eminem impersonates Triumph, the Comic Insult Dog (who had insulted Eminem in the past) getting arrested in various situations for sex crimes.

Eminem mentioned this song in an interview with Rolling Stone in 2011:

Around the tail end of [2004s] Encore, the songs started getting really goofy. Rain Man, Big Weenie, Ass Like That  thats when the wheels were coming off. Every day I had a pocketful of pills, and I would just go into the studio and goof off.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Ow, baby

[Chorus]
The way you shake it, I can't believe it
I ain't never seen an ass like that
The way you move it, you make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing
I don't believe it, it's almost too good to be true
I ain't never seen an ass like that
The way you move it, you make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing

[Verse 1]
The way she moves, she's like a belly dancer
She's shaking that ass to the new Nelly jams, I
Think someone's at the door, but I don't think I'ma answer
Police saying "freeze," (Oh), d-doing, doing, doing
What do you mean, freeze?
Please, I'm a human being, I have needs
I'm not done, not 'til I'm finished peeing
I am not resisting arrest, I am agreeing
Mr. Officer, I'm already on my knees
I can't get on the ground any further, it's impossible for me
And do not treat me like a murderer, I just like to pee
Pee, pee, yes, I make R&B
I sing song, it go ring-a-chong, a-ching-chong-chong-chong-ching
Psych, I joke, I joke, I kid, I kid
If I offend, I'm sorry, please, please, forgive
For I am Triumph the Puppet Dog, I am a mere puppet
I can get away with anything I say and you will love it
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
The way you shake it, I can't believe it
I ain't never seen an ass like that
The way you move it, you make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing
Jessica Simpson looks oh so tempting
Nick, I ain't never seen an ass like that
Every time I see the show on MTV, my pee-pee goes
D-doing, doing, doing

[Verse 2]
Mary-Kate and Ashley used to be so wholesome
Now they getting older, they're starting to grow bum-bums
I go to the movies and sit down with my popcorn
Police saying "freeze," (Oh), d-doing, doing, doing
What do you mean, freeze? Geez, I just got my seat
I have ticket, look, I put it away, my zipper's zipped
Please do not remove me from this movie theater, please
I did not even get to see Mary-Kate shower scene
I didn't mean to be obscene or make a great, big scene
And don't treat me like I'm Pee-wee Herman, this movie's PG
Mr. Officer, I demand to see my attorney
I will simply plead innocent, cop a plea, and be free
Free, yes, free, right back on the streets
What do you mean my lawyer's with Michael, he's too busy?
I am Triumph, Britney Spears has shoulders like a man
And I can say that and you'll laugh 'cause there's a puppet on my hand (Hahaha)
[Chorus]
The way you shake it, I can't believe it
I ain't never seen an ass like that
The way you move it, you make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing
Hilary Duff is not quite old enough, so
I ain't never seen a butt like that
Maybe next year, I'll say "ass" and she'll make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing

[Verse 3]
The way she moves, she dances like a go-go
In that video, she sings, "Get out, you bozo"
I need a new boyfriend, hi, my name is JoJo
Police saying "freeze," (Oh), d-doing, doing, doing
What do you mean, freeze? My computers will be seized
And my keys to my ranch, I just bake cookies
Mr. Officer, lookie, take a whiff of this
Here, I make Jesus juice, take a sip of this
Nobody is safe from me, no, not even me
I don't even know if I can say the word "pee-pee"
Pee, on the radio, but I think I did
Janet, is that a breast? I think I just saw a tit
Psych, I joke, I joke, I kid, I kid
I don't think my joke is working, I must flee quick
Get to the chopper, everybody get out
I am not Triumph, I am Arnold, get down
[Chorus]
The way you shake it, I can't believe it
I ain't never seen an ass like that
The way you move it, you make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing
So Gwen Stefani, will you pee-pee on me, please?
I ain't never seen an ass like that
'Cause the way you move it, you make my pee-pee go
D-doing, doing, doing

[Outro: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Woo
Fuck is wrong with you?
Hah61Embed

Title: Guilty Conscience
Release Date: February 23, 1999, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-guilty-conscience-lyrics
Song Description: In this classic song, Eminem and Dr. Dre play the Evil and Good conscience respectively (wait, Dre is the good one?) of three separate people who are about to commit violent or sexual crimes. Dre wins the first battle whereas Eminem wins the second. In the third case, the two agree that the bad thing to do is actually the morally right thing to do.

In Angry Blonde, Eminem explains how he came up with the idea for this song:

Dre and I were in the gym one day, and we was talkin' about song concepts and shit. Dre said that we should do a song together called Night n Day, where everything he was sayin', I was sayin' the complete opposite. So I thought about it, went home that same night, and wrote it.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Mark Avery & Eddie]
Meet Eddie, 23 years old
Fed up with life and the way things are going
(Damn, I'm going fucking insane)
He decides to rob a liquor store
(I gotta take this shit, I can't take it no more, holmes)
But on his way in, he has a sudden change of heart
(Shit is mine)
And suddenly (I gotta do this)
His conscience comes into play (I gotta do this)

[Verse 1: Dr. Dre, Eminem, & (Eddie)]
Alright, stop (Huh?)
Now before you walk in the door of this liquor store
And try to get money out the drawer
You better think of the consequence (Who are you?)
I'm your motherfuckin' conscience
That's nonsense
Go in, gaffle the money, and run to one of your aunt's cribs
And borrow a damn dress and one of her blond wigs
(Can I borrow this?)
Tell her you need a place to stay, you'll be safe for days
If you shave your legs with Renee's razor blades
Yeah, but if it all goes through like it's supposed to
The whole neighborhood knows you and they'll expose you
Think about it before you walk in the door first
Look at the store clerk, she's older than George Burns
Fuck that, do that shit, shoot that bitch
Can you afford to blow this shit? Are you that rich?
Why you give a fuck if she dies? Are you that bitch?
Do you really think she gives a fuck if you have kids?
Man, don't do it, it's not worth it to risk it (You're right)
Not over this shit (Stop)
Drop the biscuit (I will)
Don't even listen to Slim, yo, he's bad for you
You know what, Dre? I don't like your attitude
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Skit: Stan, Girl]
Come on, just come in here for a minute
I don't know
Look, look, look
Damn
Look, it's gonna be alright, alright?
O-okay
Look, give me a kiss, pull your pants off, come on

[Interlude: Mark Avery]
Meet Stan, 21 years old
After meeting a young girl at a rave party
Things start getting hot and heavy in an upstairs bedroom
Once again, his conscience comes into play

[Verse 2: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Now, listen to me, while you're kissin' her cheek
And smearin' her lipstick, slip this in her drink
Now all you gotta do is nibble on this little bitch's earlobe
Yo, this girl's only fifteen years old
You shouldn't take advantage of her, it's not fair
Yo, look at her bush, does it got hair? (Uh-huh)
Fuck this bitch right here on the spot, bare
'Til she passes out and she forgot how she got there
Man, ain't you ever seen that one movie Kids?
No, but I seen the porno with Sun Doobiest
Shit, you wanna get hauled off to jail?
Man, fuck that, hit that shit raw dog, then bail
[Interlude: The Isley Brothers, Mark Avery, (Grady), & Grady's Wife]
Here I lay
(Man, it feels good to be home)
Meet Grady, a 29-year-old construction worker
After coming home from a hard day's work
He walks in the door of his trailer park home
To find his wife in bed with another man
(What the fuck?) Grady

[Verse 3: Dr. Dre & Eminem]
Alright, calm down, relax, start breathin'
Fuck that shit, you just caught this bitch cheatin'
While you at work, she's with some dude tryna get off
Fuck slittin' her throat, cut this bitch's head off
Wait, what if there's an explanation for this shit?
What, she tripped, fell, landed on his dick?
Tsh, alright, Shady, maybe he's right, Grady
But think about the baby before you get all crazy
Okay, thought about it? Still wanna stab her?
Grab her by the throat, get your daughter and kidnap her?
That's what I did, be smart, don't be a retard
You gonna take advice from somebody who slapped Dee Barnes?
What you say?
What's wrong? Didn't think I'd remember?
I'ma kill you, motherfucker
Uh-uh, temper, temper
Mr. Dre, Mr. N.W.A, Mr. AK
Comin' straight outta Compton, y'all better make way
How in the fuck you gonna tell this man not to be violent?
'Cause he don't need to go the same route that I went
Been there, done that
Aw, fuck it, what am I sayin'?
Shoot 'em both, Grady, where's your gun at?

Title: Darkness
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-darkness-lyrics
Song Description: Darkness is the lead single from Eminems surprise album, Music to Be Murdered By. It was released with its music video alongside the album.

It has become common for rappers to metaphorically compare the words they spit to weapons and their performances to murders.  Here, Em both takes this convention to extremes and inverts it.  While the beginning of the song might lead listeners to believe they are simply hearing an account of an artists pre-performance anxiety,  la Lose Yourself, it is eventually revealed that the narrator is Stephen Paddock, the murderer responsible for the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.  As a result, a disturbing allegory is revealed that compares high-profile killings to an artists performance.

The song ends with a compilation of overlayed news clips from various shootings that have occurred in the United States in recent years, suggesting that Em is attempting to bring further awareness to Americas ongoing gun problems. He even has a quote on his website that states, WHEN WILL THIS END? WHEN ENOUGH PEOPLE CARE.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
I don't wanna be alone, I don't wanna be

[Chorus]
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness anymore
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)

[Verse 1]
Here I am, alone again
Can't get out of this hole I'm in
It's like the walls are closin' in
You can't help me, no one can
I can feel these curtains closin'
I go to open 'em
But something pulls 'em closed again
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
Feels like I'm loathing in Las Vegas
Haven't got the vaguest why I'm so lost
But I'd make you this small wager
If I bet you I'll be in tomorrow's paper
Who would the odds favor?
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
I'm so much like my father, you would think that I knew him
I keep pacin' this room, Valium, then chase it with booze
One little taste, it'll do
Maybe I'll take it and snooze, then tear up the stage in a few
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
Fuck the Colt 45, I'ma need somethin' stronger
If I pop any caps, it better be off of vodka
Round after round after round, I'm gettin' loaded (Haha)
That's a lot of shots, huh? (Double entendre)
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
And I don't wanna be alone in the darkness (Yeah)
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness anymore
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)

[Verse 2]
Now I'm starin' at the room service menu off a benzo
I can hear the music continue to crescendo
I can see the whole fuckin' venue from my window
That's when you know you're schizo
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
'Cause I keep peekin' out the curtain from the hotel
The music is so loud
But it's almost as though I don't hear no sound
I should get ready for the show now
Wait, is this the whole crowd? I thought this shit was sold out
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
But it's only the opening act, it's early, don't overreact
Then something told me relax
And just hope for the show to be packed
Don't wanna hit the stage before they fill each row to the max
'Cause that'd be totally wack
You can't murder a show nobody's at
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
But what if nobody shows? Panic mode
'Bout to snap and go motherfuckin' wacko at any second
'Bout to cancel the show just as fans below rush the entrance
Plan is a go to wreck shit, cameras in all directions
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
The press is 'bout to go ape shit, bananas on all the networks
Commando with extra clips, I got ammo for all the hecklers
I'm armed to the teeth, another Valium, fall off the bed
Hit the ground and crawl to the dresser
Alcohol on my breath as I reach for the scope
(Hello darkness, my old friend)
I'm blackin' out, I'm all out of meds
With them benzodiazepines gone
Now it's just magazines sprawled out on the floor
Fuck the media, I'm goin' all out, this is war
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
[Chorus]
And I don't wanna be alone in the darkness (Yeah)
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness anymore
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)

[Verse 3]
People start to show up, time to start the show up
It's 10:05 PM and the curtain starts to go up
And I'm already sweatin', but I'm locked and loaded
For rapid fire spittin' for all the concert-goers
Scopes for sniper vision, surprise from out of nowhere
As I slide the clip in from inside the hotel
Leanin' out the window, going Keyser Söze
Finger on the trigger, but I'm a licensed owner
With no prior convictions, so law says sky's the limit
So my supply's infinite, strapped like I'm a soldier
Got 'em hopping over walls and climbing fences
Some of them John Travolta, staying alive by inches
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
Cops are knockin', oh fuck, thought I blocked the entrance
Guess show time is over
No suicide note, just a note for target distance
But if you'd like to know the reason why I did this
You'll never find a motive, truth is I have no idea
I am just as stumped, no signs of mental illness
Just tryin' to show ya the reason why we're so fucked
'Cause by the time it's over, won't make the slightest difference
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
[Chorus]
And I don't wanna be alone in the darkness
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness
I don't wanna be alone in the darkness anymore
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)

[Outro]
Yeah, we do have some breaking news from the Associated Press right now
Just gonna bring that up because we are hearing—
(I've come to talk with you again)
We have told you that the shooter is dead
And we have just learned that police are saying that the Las Vegas shooter killed himself
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
That is the bartender there at Mandalay Bay and I believe we're going to hear more from her
(I've come to talk with you again)
Yeah, we just wanted to share that with you
You can see behind me here, this is what he looks like
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
Now we did just tell you that police just earlier...
Metro was telling us that he killed himself inside the hotel room
(I've come to talk with you again)
Good morning, as we come to you on the air
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
We bring you breaking news, a school shooting (Crushing news)
Another school shooting (Eleven people dead)
Reports of a number of fatalities, and this time it is in Santa Fe, Texas
(I've come to talk with you again)
That is just outside Galveston (That no one saw coming)
A mass shooting at a Southern Californian school (A suspect has been...)
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
We are following breaking news this morning
Another deadly school shooting
This one in Santa Fe, Texas, that's just outside Houston
(I've come to talk with you again)
Twenty-six killed and twenty others wounded (Houston affiliate is reporting)
At least nine people have been killed (Somber words, making it the deadliest shooting in Texas history)
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
Five people dead
The attacker opening fire outside the church during a morning worship session
He unloaded the chaotic and terror, making his way inside (Five people killed in a workplace shooting, dozens of officers)
(I've come to talk with you again)
This, a deadly shooting at a food festival in Northern California
(Hello, darkness, my old friend)
Three people so far dead
Breaking news (Fifteen wounded)
A deadly shooting at a newspaper office in Annapolis (A gunman opened fire)
(I've come to talk with you again)
Newly-released surveillance video shows the moments leading up to a mass shooting in Dayton, Ohio
Authorities say the shooter...

Title: Evil Twin
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-evil-twin-lyrics
Song Description: Slim Shady or Eminem? This song is dedicated to each and has a revealing ending.

The song also has a similar purpose to Criminal, the closing song of MMLP1. On Criminal, Eminem states that he doesnt mean what he says in his lyrics, then proceeds to be offensive. On this song, Eminem stops blaming those lyrics on Slim Shady and takes responsibility for those lyrics. That doesnt mean hes sorry though. Eminem also takes up the crusade that Kendrick Lamar started on Control by stating he plans to call out the rappers that are copying Kanye West, Jay Z, Lil Wayne, and Drake.

This is one of Eminems most complex, subtle, and underrated songs. Pay attention, or youll miss a lot of the above.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Yeah
Tryna figure out the difference
But I think—think the lines are starting to get blurred

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'm in a strange place
I feel like Ma$e when he gave up the game for his faith
I feel like I'm caged in these chains and restraints
Grimmin' every stranger in the place while I gaze into space
‘Cause I'm mentally rearrangin' his face
I need a change of pace
‘Cause the pace I'm workin' at's dangerous
There's nowhere to dump this anger, and thanks to this angst
I done quit chicken heads cold turkey
And started slowly roastin' 'em
‘Cause that's where most of my anger is based
Fuck your feelings
I feel like I play for the Saints
I just wanna hurt you—aim for the skanks
Then aim for all these fake Kanyes, Jays, Waynes, and the Drakes
I'm frustrated ‘cause ain't no more N'Sync, now I'm all out of whack
I'm all out of Backstreet Boys to call out and attack
I'm goin' all out in this rap shit and whatever the fallout is, I'm strapped for battle
Suck a duck, crawl out the back—it's a bar fight
Prepare your arsenal
And beware of bar stools flyin' through the air and bottles breakin', mirrors also
And I ain't stoppin' 'til the swear jar's full
"You done called every woman a slut but you're forgetting Sarah, Marshall" (Palin)
Oh, my bad, slut! And next time I show up to court
I'll be naked and just wear a law suit
Judge be like, "That's sharp
How much that motherfucker cost you, smart-ass?
You're lucky I don't tear it off you
And jump your bones, you sexy motherfucker!
You're so fuckin' gravy, Marshall, I should start callin' you 'au jus'
‘Cause all's you do is spit them lyrics out the wazoo"
Evil Twin, take this beat now, it's all you
I believe people can change but only for the worse
I coulda changed the world if it wasn't for this verse—so satanic
K-Mart chains panic ‘cause they can't even spin back the curse words
‘Cause they're worse when they're reversed, motherfucker
Rekcufrehtom!(Rape your mother)— Tihs!(Kill your parents)
And these kids are like parrots
They run around the house just like terrorists
Screamin', "Fuck! Shit! Fuck!"
Adult with a childish-like arrogance
Wild ever since the day I came out, I was like, "Merits?
Fuck that! I'd rather be loud, and I like swearin'"
From the first album even the gals were like, "Tight lyrics, dreamy eyes!"
But my fuckin' mouth was nightmarish
And from the start of it you felt like you were part of this and opposition felt the opposite
Sometimes I listen and revisit them old albums often as I can and skim through all them bitches to make sure I keep up with my competition (Haha)
Hogger of beats, hoarder of rhymes
Borderline genius who's bored of his lines
And that sort of defines where I'm at and the way I feel now
Feel like I might just strike first, then ignore the replies
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Royce Da 5'9"]
There's darkness closing in (Evil twin), there it goes again (My evil twin)
It controls my pen (My evil twin), but that ain't me, it's my evil twin
(Then I step out and see my evil twin, he gives me an evil grin)
But he's just a friend (Evil twin) who pops up now and again (Evil twin)
So don't blame me (Evil twin), blame him, it's my evil twin
(Then I step out and see my evil twin, he gives me an evil grin)

[Interlude]
Welcome back to the land of the living, my friend
You have slept for quite some time

[Verse 2: Eminem]
So who's left? Lady Gaga? Mess with the Bieber?
Nah, F with Christina
I ain't fuckin' with either Jessica neither: Simpson or Alba
My album's just sicker than strep with the fever
Get the Chloraseptic, Excedrin, Aleve, or
Extra Strength Tylenol 3s
Feel like I'm burnin' to death, but I'm freezin'
Bedridden and destined never to leave the
Bedroom ever again, like the legend of Heath-uh-
Ledger, my suicide note's barely legible; read the
Bottom, it's signed by the Joker
Lorena said I never can leave her
She'll sever my wiener I ever deceive her
Fuck that shit, bitch! Give up my dick for pussy?
I'll be Jerry Mathers I ever left it to Beaver
Get them titties cut off tryna mess with a cleaver
Golly wolly, I vent, heat register, Jesus
Ever since 19946 Dresden it was definitely in my destiny
When on the steps, I met DeShaun at Osborn
I'd never make it to sophomore
I just wanted to skip school and rap
Used to mop floors, flip burgers, and wash dishes
While I wrote rhymes, tryna get props for 'em
‘Cause I took book smarts and swapped for 'em
They were sleepin', I made 'em stop snorin'
Made 'em break out the popcorn
Now I've been hip hop in its tip-top form
Since N.W.A was blarin' through my car windows
Leanin' on the horn, screamin', "Fuck the police," like cop porn
Flipped rap on its ear like I dropped corn
Fuck top five, bitch, I'm top four
And that includes Biggie and Pac, whore
And I got an evil twin
So who the fuck you think that third and that fourth spot's for?
And crazy as I am, I'm much tamer than him, and I'm nuts
Then again, who the fuck wants a plain Eminem?
But no one's insaner than Slim, look at that (Evil grin)
(Evil twin) please come in; what was your name again?
Hi! Faggot
Look who's back with a crab up his ass like a lobster crawled up there
Two rabbits, a koala bear, and a ball of hair
And you're all aware I don't got it all upstairs
Guess that's why I'm an addict and it's so small up there
Peace to Whitney
Jeez, just hit me
That I should call the Looney Police to come get me
‘Cause I'm so sick of bein' the truth
I wish someone'd finally admit me
To a mental hospital with Britney
Oh, LMFAO, no way, Jo-
-se Baez couldn't beat this rap—O.J., no
Hooray, I'm off the hook like Casey Anthony, hey ho (Hey, ho)
I sound like I'm tryna sing the fuckin' chorus to "Hip Hop Hooray"
No, I’m hollerin', you got bottom-end like an 8-0-8
And I (Base) whether we're fuckin' off that instead of your face so
Let your low-end raise, yo
Tango, what you think, ho? Slow dancin' or bowling?
You tryin' to hold hands with your homie?
What, you think I'm lookin' for romance ‘cause I'm lonely?
Change that tune, you ain't got a remote chance to control me
Ho, I'm only vulnerable when I got a boner
Superman try to fuck me over, it won't hurt
Don't try to fix me, I'm broke, so I don't work
So are you, but you're broke ‘cause you don't work
But all bullshit aside, I hit a stride
Still Shady inside, hair every bit as dyed
As it used to be when I first introduced y'all to my skittish side
And blamed it on him when they tried to criticize'
[Outro]
‘Cause we are the same
Bitch198Embed

Title: Believe
Release Date: December 15, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-believe-lyrics
Song Description: Believe is the second track on Revival, and Eminem starts rhyming from where he left off on Walk On Water.

The track marks Eminems first take on a modern trap beat. His flow is slower and more unhurried than on previous tracks and features since his last album, which is notable as it corresponds to a passage on Walk on Water, the previous track on the album, where he mentions the public criticism of his rapid and choppy flow on recent works. The slower tempo also imitates the style of contemporary trap music. Yet, Eminem seems to denounce this style with his lyricism, making use of his trademark wordplay and imagery, no matter how corny it might come across.

Contentwise, the song is somewhat a U-turn to the previous song: On Walk On Water, Eminem was questioning himself and his ability to create new music that would appeal to his fans, while on Believe, he shows confidence and makes clear that he has faith in himself. Yet, throughout the song, one question stands above it all, and Eminem is posing it directly to his fans:

Do they still believe in him?
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
And I started from the bottom
Like a snowman—ground-up
Like round chuck, and still put hands on you
Stayin' wound up is how I spend time (Get it?)
Sucker free, confidence high
Such a breeze when I pen rhymes
I just got that air about me like wind chimes (Yeah)
'Nother day in the life (Uh)
Used to have to scrape to get by (Yeah)
Now my community's gated and I
Made it and my neighbors say hi (Say hi)
I'm givin' 'em pounds, I'm upscale now
Guess it means I'm way in the sky (Way in the sky)
But I still remember the days of
Minimum wage for general labor
Welfare recipient since a minor
Look how government assistance has made ya!
Adversity, if at first you don't succeed
Put your temper to more use
'Cause bein' broke's a poor excuse
That should only give you more fuel
Show 'em why you're you
So close, God, it's like I almost got it
But close only counts in time bombs and horseshoes
So I Unabomb shit—tick, tick, tick—no remorse, pew!
Screw it, I'm lit, and that attitude I blew up on quick
That's why they call me firecracker
I grew up on WIC—wick, wick, wick—with a short fuse
I got some important news to report to
Anyone who thought I was done: nah bitch, not quite
Spotlight's back on, got my faith, where's yours?
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Do you still believe in me?
Didn't I give everything I had to give you to make you see?
I'll never forget if you turn your back on me now
And walk out, I will never let you live it down
I'll never quit, do you still believe in me?

[Verse 2]
Man, I know sometimes
These thoughts can be harsh and cold as ice
To me they're just ink blots
I just fling 'em like slingshots and so precise
So you might wanna think it over twice (Yeah)
Or you retards can roll the dice
But beef will at least cost you your career
'Cause even my cheap shots are overpriced
But this middle finger's free as a bird
Nuke warhead at birth, hugest forehead on Earth
Too short for the verse, studied his formula, learned
How to incorporate a curse
Point it towards corporate America
Stick a fork in and turn
'Cause four-letter words are more better heard
The world force-fed a turd to me, you're getting yours
But sometimes I overdo it, but I just get so into it
I was there consolin' you when no one knew it
When your situation showed no improvement
I was that door, you walked over to it
I'm the light at the end of the tunnel
So people are always lookin' to me as they're goin' through it
When that tunnel vision is unclear
Shit becomes too much to bear
Since "Cleanin' Out My Closet"
When I was havin' trouble with the snare
I'm that unrealistic prayer answered
And I'ma get you jacked up like you're tryna fix a flat, uh
When you struggle with despair
That double-fisted, bare-knuckles coupled with this pair
Of nuts I'm cuppin', I am your 'fuck it' switch, nothin' can compare
[Chorus]
Do you still believe in me?
Didn't I give everything I had to give you to make you see?
I'll never forget if you turn your back on me now
And walk out, I will never let you live it down
I'll never quit, do you still believe in me?

[Verse 3]
Started from the bottom like a snowman
Oh man, put that in your corncob pipe and smoke that
But my battery's low, I'ma need a boost to my pack
And I know that I always got Proof at my back
I called you "Proof" because I knew for a fact
My ace in the hole, homie, I'm callin' on you
'Cause I think I'm slowly startin' to lose faith in it, so
Give me that inkling and mo–
–tivation to go, Hussein with the flow
Fake fans that are two-faced didn't show
Let heartbeats loop, produce hate in my soul
Layin' vocals two days in a row
True statement, hate to go down this road
But there's only one route to cross this bridge
So I walk in this bitch with loose change
'Cause all my dues paid, but this booth's takin' its toll
But it's never too late to start a new beginnin'
That goes for you too, so what the fuck you gon' do?
Use the tools you're given!
Or you're gon' use the cards you're dealt
As an excuse for you to not do shit with 'em?
I used to play the loser/victim
'Til I saw the way Proof was driven
I found my vehicle and I haven't ran out of gas yet
And when they stacked decks, turn handicaps into assets
Fanny packs, hourglasses
If time was on my side, I'd still have none to waste
Man, in my younger days
That dream was so much fun to chase
It's like I'd run in place
While this shit dangled in front of my face
But how do you keep up the pace
And the hunger pangs once you've won the race?
When that dual exhaust is coolin' off
'Cause you don't got nothin' left to prove at all
'Cause you done already hit 'em with the coup de grâce
Still you feel the need to go full tilt
That Bruce Willis, that Blue Steel, that true skill
When that wheel's loose, I won't lose will
Do you still believe?

Title: Just Don’t Give a Fuck
Release Date: October 13, 1998, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-just-dont-give-a-fuck-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem details his writing process for this track in his lyrics book Angry Blonde:

Just Dont Give a Fuck was a song that I wrote when I was staying at my mothers house. It was around the time that Hailie was born. She wasnt even a year old yet. All of kinds of shit- not being able to provide for my daughter, my living situation, etc., just started building up so much that I had just had it. Just Dont Give a Fuck was actually the second song where people that knew me was were like What the fuck are you talking about?  See, I didnt normally talk about stuff like that I soon found myself doing things that I normally didnt do. Like getting into drugs and drinkin'. I was reeeaaally fucked up. I was sick of everything . Kim and I had Hailie, my producers FBT were just about to give up on me, we werent paying rent to my moms, and just a whole bunch of other horrible shit was going on."

This song was also on the Slim Shady EP before being repackaged with an altered instrumental for Eminems debut solo album.

In the clean version of the album, the title was changed to Just Dont Give.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Jeff Bass]
[Intro: Frogg Dogg]
Woah, a-get yo' hands in the air
And get to clappin' 'em and, like, back and forth
Because-a this is what you thought it wasn't
It be's the brothers representin' the Dirty Dozen
I be the F-R-O, the double G
And check out my man, he goes by the name of, er, uh

[Verse 1: Eminem, Frogg Dogg]
Slim Shady, brain dead like Jim Brady
I'm a M-80, you little like that Kim lady
I'm buzzin', Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer
Cursin' at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer
You wacker than the motherfucker you bit yo' style from
You ain't gon' sell two copies if you press a double album
Admit it, fuck it, while we comin' out in the open
I'm doin' acid, crack, smack, coke, and smokin' dope then
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi, Marshall)
I have a disease and they don't know what to call it
Better hide your wallet 'cause I'm comin' up quick to strip yo' cash
Bought a ticket to yo' concert just to come and whip yo' ass
Bitch, I'm comin' out swingin' so fast it'll make yo' eyes spin
You gettin' knocked the fuck out like Mike Tyson (Pssh)
The proof is in the puddin', just ask DeShaun Holton
I'll slit yo' motherfuckin' throat worse than Ron Goldman
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
So when you see me on yo' block with two Glocks
Screamin', "Fuck the world" like 2Pac
I just don't give a fuck
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin'
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck
So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck
But see me on the street and duck
'Cause you gon' get stuck, stole, and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I'm nicer than Pete, but I'm on a search to crush a milkbone
I'm everlastin', I melt vanilla ice like silicone
I'm ill enough to just straight up diss you for no reason
I'm colder than snow season when it's twenty below freezin'
Flavor with no seasoning, this is the sneak preview
I'll diss yo' magazine and still won't get a weak review
I'll make yo' freak leave you, smell the Folgers crystals
This is lyrical combat, gentlemen, hold your pistols
While I form like Voltron and blast you with my shoulder missiles
Slim Shady, M&M was the old initials (Bye-bye)
Extortion, snortin', supportin' abortion
Pathological liar, blowin' shit outta proportion
The looniest, zaniest, spontaneous, sporadic
Impulsive thinker, compulsive drinker, addict
Half animal, half man
Dumpin' yo' dead body inside of a fuckin' trash can
With more holes than an afghan
[Chorus: Eminem]
So when you see me on yo' block with two Glocks
Screamin', "Fuck the world" like 2Pac
I just don't give a fuck
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin'
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck
So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck
But see me on the street and duck
'Cause you finna get stuck, stole, and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Somebody let me out this limousine (Hey, let me out)
I'm a caged demon
On stage screamin' like Rage Against the Machine
I'm convinced I'm a fiend
Shootin' up while this record is spinnin'
Clinically brain-dead, I don't need a second opinion
Fuck droppin' a jewel, I'm flippin' a sacred treasure
I'll bite yo' motherfuckin' style just to make it fresher
I can't take the pressure, I'm sick of bitches
Sick of naggin' bosses bitchin' while I'm washin' dishes
In school, I never said much, too busy havin' a head rush
Doin' too much rush, had my face flushed like red blush
Then I went to Jim Beam, that's when my face grayed
Went to gym in eighth grade, **** the women's swim team
Don't take me for a joke, I'm no comedian
Too many mental problems got me snortin' coke and smokin' weed again
I'm goin' up over the curb, drivin' on the median
Finally made it home but I don't got the key to get in
[Chorus: Eminem]
So when you see me on yo' block with two Glocks
Screamin', "Fuck the world" like 2Pac
I just don't give a fuck
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin'
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck
So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck
But see me on the street and duck
'Cause you finna get stuck, stole, and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck

[Outro: Eminem]
(Shit, fuck everybody)
Outsiderz, Pacewon, Young Zee (Fuck the entire world)
D.U.

Title: Stronger Than I Was
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-stronger-than-i-was-lyrics
Song Description: This sympathetic song provides an insight into Eminems relationship with ex-wife Kim, and how he apologizes for acting how he did towards her in the past. The song is the polar opposite of the track Kim from The Marshall Mathers LP album.

Moreover, Em, at least in the first two verses of the song, sings instead of rappingwhich has only happened few times before:

Yo, I cant sing, I feel like singing; I wanna fuckin' sing!

It is not clear in which perspective the first two verses are written, whether from Ems or Kims point of view, and nothing was ever said about this matter either. Probably, this was left purposely vague.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
You used to say that I'd never be
Nothin' without you, and I'd believe
I'm shot in the lungs, I gasp, I can't breathe
Just lay here with me, baby, hold me please
And I'd beg and I'd plead, drop to knees
And I'd cry and I'd scream, "Baby, please don't leave!"
Snatch the keys from your hand, I would squeeze
And you'd laugh, and you'd tease
You're just fucking with me, and you must hate me
Why do you date me, if you say I make you sad?
And you've had enough of me
I smother you, I'm 'bout to jump off the edge

[Chorus]
But you won't break me
You'll just make me stronger than I was
Before I met you, I bet you I'll be just fine without you
And if I stumble, I won't crumble
I'll get back up and uhh
But I'ma still be humble when I scream "Fuck you!"
‘Cause I'm stronger than I was

[Verse 2]
A beautiful face is all that you have
‘Cause on the inside you're ugly and mad
But you're all that I love, I grasp, you can't leave
Please stay here with me, baby, hold me please
And I'd beg and I'd plead, drop to knees
And I'd cry and I'd scream, "Baby, please don't leave!"
But you left and you took everything I had left
And left nothin', nothin' for me
So, please don't wake me from this dream, baby
We're still together in my head
And you're still in love with me
'Til I woke up to discover that that dream was dead
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
But you won't break me
You'll just make me stronger than I was
Before I met you, I bet you I'll be just fine without you
And if I stumble, I won't crumble
I'll get back up and uhh
But I'ma still be humble when I scream "Fuck you!"
‘Cause I'm stronger than I was

[Verse 3]
You walked out, I almost died
It was almost a homicide
That you caused, ‘cause I was so traumatized
Felt like I was in for a long bus ride
I'd rather die than you not by my side
Can't count how many times I vomited, cried
Go to my room, turn the radio on and hide
Thought we were Bonnie and Clyde
Nah, on the inside you were Jekyll and Hyde
I felt like my whole relationship with you was a lie
It was you and I, why did I think it was ride or die?
‘Cause if you coulda took my life you woulda
It's like you put a knife through my chest
And pushed it right through to the
Other side of my back and stuck a spike too, shoulda
Put up more of a fight, but I couldn't
At the time, no one could hurt me like you coulda
Take you back now, what's the likelihood of that?
Bite me, bitch, chew on a nineteen footer!
‘Cause this morning I finally stood up
Held my chin up, finally showed a sign of life in me for the
First time since you left
And left me with nothin' but shattered dreams
And the life we coulda had and we coulda been
But I'm breakin' out of this slump I'm in
Pullin' myself out of the dumps once again
I'm gettin' up once and for all—fuck this shit!
I'ma be late for the pity party
But you're never gonna beat me to the fuckin' punch again
Took it on the chin like a champ
So don't lump me in with them chump-ions
I'm done bein' your punching bag
It was November 31st today
Woulda been our anniversary
Two years, but you left on the 1st of May
I wrote it on a calendar, was gonna call
But couldn't think of the words to say
But they came to me just now—so I put 'em in a verse to lay
[Bridge]
And I thank you (Uh), ‘cause you made me (Uh)
A better person than I was
But I hate you (Uh), ‘cause you drained me (Uh)
I gave you all, you gave me none
But if you blame me (Uh), you're crazy (Uh)
And after all is said and done
I'm still angry, yeah, I may be
I may never trust someone

[Chorus]
But you won't break me
You'll just make me stronger than I was
Before I met you, I bet you I'll be just fine without you
And if I stumble, I won't crumble
I'll get back up and uhh
But I'ma still be humble when I scream "Fuck you!"
‘Cause I'm stronger than I was188Embed

Title: Hailie’s Song
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-hailies-song-lyrics
Song Description: Eminems ode to his daughter, this song is notable as an example of Em singing, something he endearingly worries about in the intro.

Hailie was six years old at the time of release in 2002, and Eminem had been embroiled in custody battles with Kim. The couple shared custody and the song celebrates Eminems ability to continue to spend time with Hailie.

The song faced multiple obstacles to being released. Em told MTV in 2002 that his initial plan was to keep the song private:

When I originally wrote the song, I wrote it for Hailie I didnt even plan to release it. I just wanted to experiment with it and have it for when she got older and play for her, like, I made a song for you. And once it was finished, I started playing it for people, and people liked it.

Then even after the decision to release it, there were sample issues. Originally built around an interpolation of The Beatles While My Guitar Gently Weeps, the song had to be reworked after George Harrisons wife declined to clear the sample.

Following the rework, what were left with is what Rolling Stone describes as a touching ballad laid over Sunday-night lounge blues and rap-sung with more emotion than a nation of Linkin Parks.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Da-da-da-da
Yo, I can't sing, but
I feel like singing
I wanna fuckin' sing
'Cause I'm happy
Yeah, I'm happy
Haha
I got my baby back
Yo, check it out

[Verse 1]
Some days I sit (Sit), starin' out the window ('Dow)
Watchin' this world pass me by
Sometimes I think (Think), there's nothin' to live for (For)
I almost break down and cry, sometimes I think I'm crazy
I'm crazy, oh so crazy! Why am I here? Am I just wastin' my time?

[Pre-Chorus]
But then I see my baby, suddenly I'm not crazy
It all makes sense when I look into her eyes, oh no

[Chorus]
'Cause sometimes it feels like the world's on my shoulders
(Fuck, I was scared)
Everyone's leanin' on me
'Cause sometimes it feels like the world's almost over
But then she comes back to me
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
My baby girl (Girl), keeps gettin' older ('Der)
I watch her grow up with pride
People make jokes (Jokes) 'cause they don't understand me (Me)
They just don't see my real side, I act like shit don't faze me
Inside it drives me crazy, my insecurities could eat me alive

[Pre-Chorus]
But then I see my baby, suddenly I'm not crazy
It all makes sense when I look into her eyes, oh no

[Chorus]
'Cause sometimes it feels like the world's on my shoulders
Everyone's leanin' on me
'Cause sometimes it feels like the world's almost over
But then she comes back to me

[Verse 3]
Man, if I could sing, I'd keep singin' this song to my daughter
If I could hit the notes, I'd blow somethin' as long as my father
To show her how I feel about her, how proud I am that I got her
God, I'm a daddy, I'm so glad that her mom didn't *reh tnaw*
Now, you probably get this picture from my public persona
That I'm a pistol-packin' drug addict who bags on his momma
But I wanna just take this time out to be perfectly honest
'Cause there's a lot of shit I keep bottled that hurts deep inside of my soul
And just know that I grow colder the older I grow
This boulder on my shoulder gets heavy and harder to hold
And this load is like the weight of the world
And I think my neck is breakin'
Should I just give up or try to live up to these expectations?
Now look, I love my daughter more than life in itself
But I got a wife that's determined to make my life livin' hell
But I handle it well, given the circumstances I'm dealt
So many chances, man, it's too bad, coulda had someone else
But the years that I've wasted is nothin' to the tears that I've tasted
So here's what I'm facin': three felonies, six years of probation
I've went to jail for this woman
I've been to bat for this woman
I've taken bats to people's backs
Bent over backwards for this woman
Man, I shoulda seen it comin', what'd I stick my penis up in?
Wouldn't have ripped the prenup up if I'da seen what she was fuckin'
But fuck it, it's over, there's no more reason to cry no more
I got my baby, baby, the only lady that I adore: Hailie
So sayonara, try tomorrow, nice to know ya
Our baby's traveled back to the arms of her rightful owner
And suddenly it seems like my shoulder blades have just shifted
It's like the greatest gift you can get, the weight has been lifted
And—
[Bridge]
And now it don't feel like the world's on my shoulders (Thanks)
Everyone's leanin' on me
'Cause my baby knows that her daddy's a soldier
Nothin' can take her from me

[Outro]
Woo! Heh, told you I can't sing
Oh well, I tried
Hailie, 'member when I said
If you ever need anything, Daddy would be right there?
Guess what? Daddy's here
And I ain't goin' nowhere, baby
I love you (​​*smooch*)​​

Title: Untouchable
Release Date: December 8, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-untouchable-lyrics
Song Description: Untouchable details the racial injustice in America from a white persons perspective on the first two verses and finally switching to the views to that of a black person in the final verse.

The song was released the day after the former South Carolina police officer Michael Slager was sentenced to 20 years in prison for the shooting death of Walter Scott in 2015, while he was fleeing from the scene in broad daylight and was unarmed.

Speaking to Michel Martin on NPRs All Things Considered, Eminem explains that the frequent stories of U.S. police brutality prompted him to want to address the subject in his music. Moreover, he hopes that both Untouchable and Joyner Lucas' Im Not Racist will inspire a broad audience to see a controversial issue in a new light, as well as continue this national conversation on racial inequality. He further states:

Im not talking about, All police are bad. Im saying that this is the perspective from the racist white cop. This is what got me infuriated, and two years ago got me so flustered I couldnt even write about it because my thoughts would get too scattered.
Lyrics:

[Part I]

[Intro]
Hands up, officer don't shoot
Then pull your pants up, promise you won't loot
We may never understand each other, it's no use
We ain't ever gonna grasp what each other goes through

[Verse 1]
Black boy, black boy, we ain't gonna lie to you
Black boy, black boy, we don't like the sight of you
Pull up on the side of you
Window rolled down, 'profile'
Then we wonder why we see this side of you
Probably comin' from the dope house
We could let you slide but your tail light is blew, out
We know you're hidin' that Heidi Klum
On you another drug charge, homie, it's back inside for you
And just in case a chase might ensue, we got that tried and true
Pistol drew right at you, we'd be delighted to unload it
In your back, then walk up and lay that taser on the side of you
Fucked up, but what the fuck am I to do?
I keep tellin' myself, keep doin' like you're doin'
No matter how many lives you ruin
It's for the red, white and blue
Time to go find a new one and split his head right in two
No one's ever indicted you
Why? 'Cause you're a...
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Cheech and Chong]
White boy, white boy, you're a rockstar
My momma talkin' to me, tryna tell me how to live
White boy, white boy, in your cop car
But I don't listen to her, 'cause my head is like a sieve
White boy, white boy, you're untouchable
The world's coming to an end, I don't even care
Nobody can tell me shit 'cause I'm a big rockstar

[Verse 2]
Black boy, black boy, we don't get your culture and
We don't care what our government's done to fuck you over, man
Don't tell us your attitude's a result of that
Balderdash, where'd you get the chip on your shoulder at?
Why you kicking that soda can?
Pull your pants up, we 'bout to roll up and
Throw your ass in the van cuffed
You don't have to know our plans or what our intentions are
Our cards are close to our chest, you better show your hands
And put our minds more at ease
Or get shot in the thyroid, comply or die, boy
We're fightin' a crime war, here come the swine
Tryna clean up the streets from all these minorities
That's what we call 'em pigsties for
They're like eyesores to police
Talk to you like just a piece of trash
Feels like we're stuck in a time warp to me
As I kick these facts and get these mixed reactions
As this beat backspins, it's like we're drifting back in
To the sixties, having black skin is risky
'Cause this keeps happening
Throughout history, African-Americans have been treated like shit
And I admit, there have been times where it's been embarrassin' to be a...
[Chorus: Eminem & Cheech and Chong]
White boy, white boy, you're a rockstar
My momma talkin' to me, tryna tell me how to live
White boy, white boy, in your cop car
But I don't listen to her, 'cause my head is like a sieve
White boy, white boy, you're untouchable
The world's coming to an end, I don't even care
Nobody can tell me shit 'cause I'm a big rockstar
[Part II]

[Verse 3]
Seems like the average lifespan of a white man
Is more than twice than a black life span
I wonder sometimes if it has a price scanner
I feel like checking out on life, can't escape this circumstance
I'd rather hear 'em say "Die N-word" than Die Antwoord
Ninja, now it's better disguised banter
But that's life, strapped 'cause we're strapped financially
And can't find answers
We're applying, but McDonald's
Seems to be the only franchise that'll hire
So how can we have higher standards?
As Dallas overshadows the battle for Black Lives Matter
We fight back with violence but acts like that are
Black eyes on the movement
Which makes black lives madder
At cops and cops madder
That's why it's at a stalemate
And can't arrive at a compromise so it's Black Ops
I wonder if we hire more black cops, the crap stops
The block is our backyards, officers, not the crack spot
Call the attack dogs off of us, man
You always act all pissed off at us at a traffic stop
And bad cops fuck it up for the good cops, and man, stop
Sendin' white cops in the black neighborhoods
Who ain't acclimated to 'em, like that's the way to do it
Who seen some fuckin' videos of rappers waving guns
And know nobody black so they act afraid of us
And that's racism, the fear that a black face gives 'em
A subconscious racist
Wait, why are there black neighborhoods?
'Cause America segregated us, designated us to an area
Separated us, Section-Eight'd us
When we tear it up's the only time attention's paid to us
And education sucks, and every day's another
Freddie Gray for us, a levy breaks or fuzz
Why is it they treat us like dryer lint?
We just want a safe environment for our kids
But can't escape the sirens
Don't take a scientist to see our violent nature lies in
The poverty that we face so the crime rate's the highest in
The lowest classes, it's like a razor wire fence
And we're trapped in these racial biases
That plague our society which makes our anxiety levels raise
Every time we see a devil's face
Lions, tigers, and bears, oh my
It's more like billy clubs and gats
And we really love it when you think we're guilty ‘cause we're black
"But you kill each other, facts
You peel each other's caps, for silly stuff like hats”
Single mother strugglin' through substance abuse
While people with nothin' to lose shoot each other for shoes
Fuck your Republican views
Pull ourselves up by our bootstraps, where the fuck are the boots?
And streets act as a narrator, don't gotta read comics
Or be that into characters, just to see that, just to be black
You better be strapped with a derringer
Or be “capped in America” like Steve Rogers
'Cause no one oversees these cops and
All we see is 'em beat charges
We done seen 'em beat Rodney King unconscious, and got off
So we don't need all you crooked police officers' peace offerings
Just keep marchin', 'til we reach congress
But they're gonna say you're tryin' to take an irrational stance
If you try to slander the flag but
Somebody has to be the sacrificial lamb
So they call it a Kaepernick tantrum
If you don't stand for the national anthem
We raise it, you better praise it
Or you'll be made to feel like a traitor, we'll
Treat you like Rodney Dangerfield
Home of the brave is still racist 'ville
So this whole nation feels like a plantation field
In a country that claims that its foundation was based on United States ideals
That had its Natives killed
Got you singin' this star-spangled spiel
To a piece of cloth that represents the "Land of the Free" that made people slaves to build272Embed

Title: Business
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-business-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem and Dre use the same superhero theme to get rid of the real villainbad lyricism.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Marshall! Sounds like an SOS
Holy wack unlyrical lyrics, Andre, you're fucking right!
To the Rapmobile—let's go!
(Marshall! Marshall!)
Bitches and gentlemen! It's showtime!
Hurry hurry, step right up!
Introducing the star of our show
His name is (Marshall!)
You wouldn't wanna be anywhere else in the world right now
So without further ado, I bring to you (Marshall!)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
You 'bout to witness hip-hop in its most purest
Most rawest form, flow almost flawless
Most hardest, most honest known artist
Chip off the old block, but old Doc is (back)
Looks like Batman brought his own Robin
Oh God, Saddam's got his own Laden
With his own private plane, his own pilot
Set to blow college dorm room doors off the hinges
Oranges, peach, pears, plums, syringes
Vrinn, vrinn! Yeah, here I come, I'm inches
Away from you, dear, fear none
Hip-hop is in a state of 9-1-1, so
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Let's get down to business
I don't got no time to play around, what is this?
Must be a circus in town, let's shut the shit down
On these clowns; can I get a witness? (Hell yeah!)
Let's get down to business
I don't got no time to play around, what is this?
Must be a circus in town, let's shut the shit down
On these clowns; can I get a witness? (Hell yeah!)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Quick, gotta move fast, gotta perform miracles
Gee willikers, Dre, holy bat syllables!
Look at all the bullshit that goes on in Gotham
When I'm gone, time to get rid of these rap criminals
So skip to your lou while I do what I do best
You ain't even impressed no more, you're used to it
Flow's too wet, nobody close to it
Nobody says it but still everybody knows the shit
The most hated on out of all those who say they get hated on
In eighty songs and exaggerate it all so much
They make it all up, there's no such thing
Like a female with good looks who cooks and cleans
It just means so much more to so much more
People, when you're rappin' and you know what for
The show must go on; so I'd like to welcome y'all
To Marshall and Andre's carnival, c'mon!
[Chorus: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Now let's get down to business
I don't got no time to play around, what is this?
Must be a circus in town, let's shut the shit down
On these clowns; can I get a witness? (Hell yeah!)
Let's get down to business
I don't got no time to play around, what is this?
Must be a circus in town, let's shut the shit down
On these clowns; can I get a witness? (Hell yeah!)

[Verse 3: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
It's just like old times, the Dynamic Duo
Two old friends, why panic? You already know
Who's fully capable, the two caped heroes
Dial straight down the center, eight-zero-zero
You can even call collect, the most feared duet
Since me and Elton played career Russian Roulette
And never even see me blink or get to bustin' a sweat
People steppin' over people just to rush to the set
Just to get to see an MC who breathes so freely
Ease over these beats and be so breezy
Jesus, how can shit be so easy?
How can one Chandra be so Levy?
Turn on these beats, MCs don't see me
Believe me, BET and MTV
Are gonna grieve when we leave, dog, fo' sheezy
Can't leave rap alone, the game needs me
'Til we grow beards, get weird and disappear
Into the mountains, nothin' but clowns down here
But we ain't fuckin' around 'round here
Yo, Dre (What up?) Can I get a "hell..."? (Hell yeah!)
[Chorus: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Now let's get down to business
I don't got no time to play around, what is this?
Must be a circus in town, let's shut the shit down
On these clowns; can I get a witness? (Hell yeah!)
Let's get down to business
I don't got no time to play around, what is this?
Must be a circus in town, let's shut the shit down
On these clowns; can I get a witness? (Hell yeah!)

[Outro: Eminem]
So there you have it, folks
(Marshall!) has come to save the day
Back with his friend Andre
And to remind you that bullshit does not pay
Because (Marshall!) and Andre are here to stay
And never go away
Until our dying day
Until we're old and grey (Marshall!)
So until next time, friends
Same blonde hair, same rap channel
Good night, everyone!
Thank you for coming! Your host for the evening (Marshall!)
Oh! Heh102Embed

Title: Just Lose It
Release Date: September 12, 2004, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-just-lose-it-lyrics
Song Description: Released as the first single off of Encore, Em goes very far with scatological humor, Michael Jackson jokes and one of the most distinctive choruses in Ems career.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Down, down, down
Down, down, down
Down, down, down
Down, okay
Guess who's back, back again
Shady's back, tell a friend
Now everyone report to the dance floor
To the dance floor, to the dance floor
Now everyone report to the dance floor
Alright, stop, pajama time

[Verse 1]
Come here, little kiddies, on my lap
Guess who's back with a brand-new rap?
And I don't mean "rap" as in a new case
Of child molestation accusa—
Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah, no worries
Papa's got a brand-new bag of toys
What else could I possibly do to make noise?
I done touched on everything but little boys
And that's not a stab at Michael
That's just a metaphor, I'm just psycho
I go a little bit crazy sometimes
I get a little bit out of control with my rhymes
Good God, dip, do a little slide
Bend down, touch your toes, and just glide
Up the center of the dance floor
Like TP for my bung-hole
And it's cool if you let one go
Nobody's gonna know, who'd hear it?
Give a little poot-poot, it's okay
Oops, my CD just skipped
And everyone just heard you let one rip
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Now I'm gonna make you dance
It's your chance, yeah, boy, shake that ass
Whoops, I mean girl, girl, girl, girl
Girl, you know you're my world
Alright, now lose it (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Just lose it (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Go crazy (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Oh, baby (Ah-ah), oh, baby, baby (Ah-ah)

[Post-Chorus]
Well, it's Friday and it's my day
Just to party all the way 'til Sunday
Maybe 'til Monday, I don't know what day
Every day's just a holiday
Cruisin' on the freeway, feelin' kinda breezy
Let the top down and my hair blow
I don't know where I'm goin', all I know is
When I get there, someone's gonna touch my body

[Verse 2]
'Scuse me, miss, I don't mean to sound like a jerk
But I'm feelin' just a little stressed out from work
Could you punch me in the stomach and pull my hair?
Spit on me? Maybe gouge my eyes out? (Yeah)
Now, what's your name, girl? What's your sign?
Man, you must be up out your mind
Dre (Ah-ah), beer goggles, blind
I'm just tryin' to unwind, now I'm
[Chorus]
Now I'm gonna make you dance
It's your chance, yeah, boy, shake that ass
Whoops, I mean girl, girl, girl, girl
Girl, you know you're my world
Alright, now lose it (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Just lose it (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Go crazy (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Oh, baby (Ah-ah), oh, baby, baby (Ah-ah)

[Post-Chorus]
Well, it's Tuesday and I'm locked up
I'm in jail and I don't know what happened
They say I was runnin' butt-naked
Down the street screamin' (Ah-ah-ah-ah)
Your honor, I'm sorry, I don't remember
All I know is this much, I'm not guilty
They said, "Save it, boy, we got you on tape"
Yellin' at an old lady to touch my body

[Verse 3]
Now this is the part where the rap breaks down
It gets real intense, no one makes a sound
Everything looks like it's 8 Mile now
The beat comes back and everybody lose themselves
Now snap back to reality look, it's B. Rabbit
Yo, you signed me up to battle? I'm a grown man
Chubba-chubba-chubba-chubba-chubba-chubba-chubby
I don't have any lines to go right here, so chubba-Teletubby
Fellas (What?) Fellas (What?)
Grab your left nut, make your right one jealous (What?)
Black girls, white girls, skinny girls, fat girls
Tall girls, small girls, I'm calling all girls
Everyone report to the dance floor
It's your chance for a little romance or
Butt squeezin', it's the season
Just go (Ah-ah-ah-ah), so appeasin'
[Chorus]
Now I'm gonna make you dance
It's your chance, yeah, boy, shake that ass
Whoops, I mean girl, girl, girl, girl
Girl, you know you're my world
Alright, now lose it (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Just lose it (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Go crazy (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
Oh, baby (Ah-ah), oh, baby, baby (Ah-ah)

[Outro]
Touch my body
Touch my body
Oh, boy, just touch my body
I mean, girl, just touch my body101Embed

Title: You Gon’ Learn
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-you-gon-learn-lyrics
Song Description: On You Gon' Learn, Eminem teams up with Royce da 5'9" and White Gold to stress the importance of resilience and determination. Royce and Em present themselves as products of survival despite the calamitous trials and tribulations theyve been confronted with, while acknowledging the demons theyve battled on their respective journeys to stardom.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: White Gold]
Pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
All them pretty bitches leave yo' ass in the urn
You ain't sold your last rock, you just better earn
But I pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
Pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
All them pretty bitches leave yo' ass in the urn
You ain't sold your last rock, you just better earn
But I pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn

[Verse 1: Royce da 5'9"]
I'm a product of properly hoppin' up out of that poverty
Profitin' all for coppin' and swappin' that property out for a possible monopoly
Tryin' not to adopt my father's old philosophies
Same time I'm prayin' to God that everything works out at his colonoscopy
I'm walkin' across a suicidal tightrope intentionally
While the demons comin' out of me
Wifey's on the side of me talkin' sense into me
Without she, I feel incomplete mentally, she's been sent to me
Right there since '9-6, worse nightmare to side chicks, some things are just meant to be
This it for me, give my daughters a kiss for me
Y'all call this fame, I call this shit alcoholistic infamy
Targettin' my kids and babies through population and gun control
Shit make me wanna make a hunnid more
Make a bigot racist uncomfortable
If y'all against talk and reparation then I'm not against the thought of separation
While the politicians that are white and privileged ask how is this different from segregation, that's funny bro
Segregation is bein' told where I'm gonna go
Separation is bein' woke and goin' wherever I wanna go
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: White Gold]
Pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
All them pretty bitches leave yo' ass in the urn
You ain't sold your last rock, you just better earn
But I pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
Pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
All them pretty bitches leave yo' ass in the urn
You ain't sold your last rock, you just better earn
But I pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Never sold dope for no gold rope
Wanted one though, they were so dope (Yeah)
Was a have-not (Yeah) 'cause my pockets (Uh)
Didn't have knots, I was so broke
On my last rock, for my slingshot
Better haul ass, don't be no slow poke (Nope)
Through the tall grass, run your ass off (Yeah)
Oh no, got your pants caught on the fence post
Getting chased, by them Jackboys, think it's 'bout to fuzz
Like a lint roller they wait 'til it's late, they will tiptoe
Through your living room window
Take your Nintendo and then skate
Making you feel like you got bent over and raped
Little boy, you're never gonna get no rope chain
Get your shit stole, and your lip swole, I became bitter
As I got a little bit older, my hate
Was making me get cold, and began to get a chipped shoulder
Started to spit vulgar, my ZIP code had been skid row
But I ate every single beat that I spit over, the shithole I escaped
Then I began to explode, detonate, now the Eastside went schizo
Thought my name was B-side 'cause they flipped over my tape
And I won't hesitate
To get 'em all bent so outta shape (Fuck)
Shit, bro, hold up, wait
I just tripped over my cape (Superman)
And I'm not gonna let up, treat the paper like I'm chopping a letter
Dre'll tell you how I shred
So when you refer to the guy next to the doc, you meant shredder
Now the cops wanna set up roadblocks on my head, I
Got several bounties from feds in every county
I'm with a gal at a Checkers wiling
Bumping "Fuck Da Police" while I fed her Rally's
This shit is like Romper Room
Why do I feel responsible for these kids?
All of whom I'm a father to
I'm a God to you, y'all better worship the water I walk on
Or y'all gonna meet your Waterloo
I get to flippin' the mic' as a murder weapon
I'm poppin' an extra clip, then cock and shoot, then I'm popping
Do not let me catch you slippin'
I will pop up and I'll take a spot from you
I'll get to doing what a leaky faucet do
But I ain't talkin' drip when I say that I'll get the drop on you
Singin' fuck all of you in Autotune
I am too volatile and too grizzly to bear
Yeah, shit is gettin' to where I can barely even sit in a chair
I bust my ass for this shit and I swear
It ain't even worth dissing someone so offbeat
That they can't even figure out where their words
Should hit the kick and the snare
[Chorus: White Gold]
Pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
All them pretty bitches leave yo' ass in the urn
You ain't sold your last rock, you just better earn
But I pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
Pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn
All them pretty bitches leave yo' ass in the urn
You ain't sold your last rock, you just better earn
But I pray you see tomorrow, little boy, you gon' learn154Embed

Title: Beautiful Pain
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-beautiful-pain-lyrics
Song Description: This track marks the first collaboration between Sia and Eminem, (who have since then collaborated again on Eminems Shady XV track Guts Over Fear).

At the time that this track was released, Sia was most well-known for her collaborations with David Guetta, featuring on his smash hits Titanium & She Wolf. She has since then made a name for herself with multiple chart-topping hits, including one of her most notable ones Chandelier.

Sia received a lot of backlash from the LGBTQ+ community for collaborating with Eminem because of his long-time provocative use of homophobic slurs and sentiments in his early career. In response to the backlash, Sia donated a portion of her proceeds earned from the song to the Los Angeles LGBT Center.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Sia]
I can feel the heat risin'
Everything is on fire
Today's a painful re-
Minder of why
It can only get brighter
The further you put it behind ya
But right now I'm on the
Inside lookin' out, ‘cause—

[Chorus: Sia]
I'm standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
To find the light, find the light, find the light
Standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
Find the light, find the light, find the light

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Yesterday was the tornado warning, today's like the morning after
Your world is torn in half, you wake in its wake
To start the mourning process and rebuilding, you're still a work in progress
Today's a whole new chapter, it's like an enormous asthma
Thunderstorm has passed ya, you weathered it and poked its
Eye out with the thornbush that ya used to smell the roses
Stopped to inhale, can't even tell your nose is stuffed
So focused on the bright side then you floor the gas pedal
And hit the corner faster, more assertive, never looking back
May hit the curb, but every day's a new learning curve as ya
Steer through life, sometimes you might not wanna swerve but you have to
To avert a disaster, lucky no permanent damage
‘Cause they hurt you so bad it's like they murdered your ass
And threw dirt on your casket, but you've returned from the ashes
And that hurt that you have, you just converted to gasoline
And while you're burning the past, standing at inferno and chantin'
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Sia]
I'm standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
To find the light, find the light, find the light
Standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
Find the light, find the light, find the light

[Verse 2: Eminem]
You're so familiarized with what having to swallow this pill is like
It happens all the time, they take your heart and steal your life
And it's as though you feel you've died, 'cause you've been killed inside
But yet you're still alive, which means you will survive
Although today you may weep ‘cause you're weak and
Everything seems so bleak and hopeless, the light that you're seekin'
It begins to seep in, that's the only thing keepin'
You from leapin' off the motherfreakin' deep end
And I'm pullin' for you to push through this feeling
And with a little time that should do the healing and by tomorrow
You may even feel so good that you're willing to forgive 'em
Even after all the shit you've been put through, this feeling of resilience is building
And the flames are burnin' quick as fire would through this building
You're sealed in, but you're fireproof, flame retardant, you withstood it
And as you climb up to the roof, you're just chillin', you look down, ‘cause you're so over 'em
You could put the heel of your foot through the ceiling
[Bridge: Eminem]
As time passes, things change every day
But wounds, wounds heal but scars still remaining the same
But tomorrow, today's going down in flames
Throw the match, set the past ablaze

[Verse 3: Eminem]
So feel the fire beneath your feet as you barely even
Perspire from the heat, exhale deep and breathe a sigh of relief
And as you say goodbye to the grief, it's like watching the walls melt
In your prison cell, but you've extinguished this livin' hell
Still, a little piece of you dies as you scream—

[Chorus: Sia]
I'm standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
To find the light, find the light, find the light
Standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
Find the light, find the light, find the light

[Bridge: Sia]
I feel the burn
Watch the smoke as I turn, rising
A phoenix from the flames
I have learned
From fighting fights that weren't mine
It's not with fists
But with wings that I will fly
[Chorus: Sia]
And I'm standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
To find the light, find the light, find the light
Standin' in the flames
And it’s a beautiful kind of pain
Settin' fire to yesterday
Find the light, find the light, find the light242Embed

Title: So Much Better
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-so-much-better-lyrics
Song Description: The beat on this song is a modified version of the one used on Criminal from the first Marshall Mathers LP.

So Much Better seems to be some kind of throwback song to 2004s Puke, featuring a similar topic as well as stretching/repeating words or syllables like oye-yoy-yoy or Boo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo-who in the same manner.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
You fuckin' groupie
Pick up the goddamn phone

[Verse 1]
Bitch, where the fuck were you Tuesday? With who you say?
I wasn't at the studio, bitch, what'd you do? Screw Dre?
You went there lookin' for me? Boo, that excuse is too lame
Keep playin' me, you're gonna end up with a huge goose egg
You fake, lyin' slut, you never told me you knew Drake
And Lupe? You wanna lose two legs?
You tryin' to flip this on me? If I spent more time with you, you say
"Okay, yeah, and I'm coo-coo, eh?" — Well, screw you
And I'll be the third person who screwed you today
Oh, fourth—Dre, Drake, Lupe—ooh, touché
You were too two-faced for me
Thought you was my number one true-blue ace
But you ain't and I can't see you when you make that wittle boo-boo face
'Cause I'm hanging up this phone, boo, you make my fuckin' Bluetooth ache
You're feeling blue? Too late, go smurf yourself
You make me wanna smurf and puke blue Kool Aid
Here's what you say to someone you hate

[Chorus]
My life would be so much better
If you just dropped dead
I was layin' in bed last night, thinkin'
And then this thought just popped in my head
And I thought, wouldn't shit just be a lot easier
If you dropped dead?
I would feel so much, much better
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
Think I just relapsed, this bitch pushed me over the brink
Hop on the freeway tryna get some time alone and just think
'Til the cops pulled me over, but they let me go, 'cause I told 'em
I'm only drivin' drunk 'cause that bitch drove me to drink
I'm back on my fuck hoes, with a whole new hatred for blondes
But bias? I hate all bitches the same, baby, come on!
Excuse the pun, but bitch is such a broad statement, and I'm
Channelin' my anger through every single station that's on!
'Cause a woman broke my he-art, I say, "he-art"
'Cause she ripped it in two pa-arts and threw it in the garbage
Who do you think you a-are? Bitch, guess it's time for me to get the dust off
And pick myself up off the carpet
But I'll never say the L-word again
I lo-lo-lo-lo… lesbian!
Aaahhh! I hope you hear this song
And go into a cardiac arrest, my life'd be so much better if you just—

[Chorus]
My life would be so much better
If you just dropped dead
I was layin' in bed last night, thinkin'
And then this thought just popped in my head
And I thought, wouldn't shit just be a lot easier
If you dropped dead?
I would feel so much, much better
[Bridge]
'Cause you told me
You'd love me
Forever
Bitch, that was a lie
Now I never
Wanted someone to die
So bad in my fuckin' life
But fuck it, there’s other fish in the sea

[Verse 3]
And I'ma have a whale of a time
Bein' a single sailor for the night, bitch, on a scale of
One to ten, shit, I must be the Holy Grail of
Catches, ho, I got an Oscar attached to my fuckin' name (De La)
I might hit the club, find a chick that's tailor-made
For me, say fuck it, kick some shots back, get hammered, and nail her
These bitches tryin' to get attached, but they're failin' to latch onto the tail of
My bumper, they're scratchin' at the back of my trailer
Like I'm itchin' to get hitched, yeah, I'm rich as a bitch
But bitches ain't shit, I'd rather leave a bitch in a ditch
Bitch, you complain when you listen to this
But you still throw yourself at me: that's what I call pitchin' a bitch
That's why I'm swingin' at this chicks on-site
Long as I got a bat and two balls it's foul, but my dick's on strike
So all that love shit is null and void, bitch, I'm a droid
I avoid Cupid, stupid! Wasn't for blow jobs, you'd be unemployed
Oye-yoy-yoy, man-oh-man, your boy-boy-boys
Gettin' sick of these girls-girls-girls, oink-oink-oink
You fuckin' pigs, all you're good for is doink-doink-doink
I got 99 problems and a bitch ain't one
She's all 99 of 'em, I need a machine gun
I'll take 'em all out, I hope you hear this song
And go into a cardiac arrest, have a heart attack and just
Drop dead, and I'ma throw a fuckin' party after this, 'cause yes
[Chorus]
My life would be so much better
If you just dropped dead (I hate you)
I was layin' in bed last night, thinkin'
And then this thought just popped in my head (You made me like this way)
And I thought, wouldn't shit just be a lot easier
If you dropped dead? (Bitch)
I would feel so much, much better

[Outro]
I'm just playin', bitch
You know I love you121Embed

Title: Chloraseptic (Remix)
Release Date: January 8, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-chloraseptic-remix-lyrics
Song Description: The remix to Eminems Chloraseptic features Atlanta rapper 2 Chainz, who was on the original version before being cut off the album, a new verse from PHresher and a brand new verse from Eminem, who directly responds to the post-release criticism of his 2017 album, Revival.
Lyrics:

[Intro: 2 Chainz]
2 Chainz
Yeah, yeah

[Verse 1: 2 Chainz]
Take 'em to church, I'm talkin' the tabernacle
It's the return of the body snatcher
Walk in the spot, make my woman smack ya (Woo)
In a fruit fight, I aim at your Adam's apple
Pull up in the candy car, eatin' a candy bar
And my girl eatin' a candy apple
Yeah (Mm), I line their ass up (Up)
I aim at their goozer (Baow)
All of these stones on my neck, uh
They must have looked at Medusa
Pockets Rasputia of course
I drove some rims to court
I fucked some twins before
I had a Benz before, this is the sin report
This is the murder, murder, pass the burner, Em (Uh)
Your money shorter than an acronym (Ayy)
Big body when I'm backin' in (Woo)
Ladi-dadi, got a bunch of bodies
Niggas fakin', niggas human traffickin' (Woo)
I'm on the Act' again, uh (I'm on the Act' again)
This ain't a accident, uh
King like Ak-Ron
I run the trap again, you on the treadmill (Treadmill)
Never Neverland, shit came with a Ferris wheel (Goddamn!)
Ferris day off, baby, AR in the same car
Most of y'all my sons, aw, look at little JR
F12 same color Kate Moss
Uh, I'm talkin' wristin' the pot
I'm talkin' this and you not
I'm talkin' bricks and you not
I'm talkin' straight up and down, nigga, like 6 o'clock
This is the equinox, this what the people want
Somebody at the door, I heard the speaker knock, uh
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: PHresher]
I'm at your throat like Chloraseptic, 'septic
And you got strep, I'm too complex with, 'plex with
This shit I wrote is on some next shit, next shit
I'm at your throat, I'm feelin' reckless, reckless, yeah

[Verse 2: PHresher]
Do me a favor, don't do me no favors
These bitches got flavors
They all wanna smoke but ain't doin' no labor
But they shoppin' at Raleys, they stingin' like tasers
Act Hollywood like they play for the Lakers
They fly on the latest
Crocs, alligators, say hi to my haters
Pardon my neighbor
We eatin' that chicken, lobster, potatoes
You must be sniffin' that yayo
If you don't think I'm that nigga
Swagger on ten since a day old
It's a-okay though, whippin' up whip like it's mayo
Every track is a K.O., technical K.O. 
Go off your head like I'm Ayo
Out of this world, talkin' NATO
It's 'cause of jail, ho, don't be an A-hole
'Cause I got shooters that shoot when I say so (Lay low!)
Wanna be in my shoes, you ain't paid no dues (Our shoes)
Go nigga, you ain't break no rules (Hell yeah!)
High school, niggas ate yo' food (Food)
Might dumb it down a little, but I ain't no fool (Hell yeah!)
Niggas hate every day, B (Yeah)
Shit is O.C. lately (Yeah)
Gotta break 'em off with these Dre beats (Yeah)
Or I might go crazy (Hell yeah)
These niggas too goddamn lazy (Too lazy)
Don't ever, ever, ever try to play me (To play me)
Lil' shawty now comin' from BK (BK)
But I'm tryna come up like JAY-Z (Like JAY-Z)
Nothin' but love for my idols (Love for my idols)
I feel entitled to titles (To titles)
Fuck it, man, I want the title (I want the title)
Submission, they goin' all viral
[Chorus: PHresher]
'Cause I'm at your throat like Chloraseptic, 'septic
And you got strep, I'm too complex with, 'plex with
This shit I wrote is on some next shit, next shit
I'm at your throat, I'm feelin' reckless, reckless, yeah (Hell yeah)
[Verse 3: Eminem]
Bin Laden with a pen, bodyin' again
I begin slaughterin' your men, prolly shoulda been
Ali or the Svengali embodiment of sin
Like a Saudi in the Taliban plottin' an event
In the lobby of the Intercontinental with an obvious intent
And I would not even relent up on a little
Like Osama with a bomb under the bin and down the middle
Of the Pentagon and hit a kindergartner with a rental (Stop)
Back and forth, back and forth
Like Jack Kevorkian's ass to court
"Rap mature! Why can't you be like Macklemore?" (Huh?)
"Why you always gotta smack a whore?" (Huh?)
It's likely the psychiatric ward's a last resort (Huh?)
Something's gotta give, that's for sure
Yet you keep comin' back for more
Not as raw as I was, “'Walk on Water' sucks”
Bitch, suck my dick!
Y'all saw the tracklist and had a fit
'Fore you heard it, so you formed your verdict
While you sat wit' your arms crossed
Did your little reaction videos and talked over songs (Chill)
Nah dog, y'all sayin' I lost it?
Your fuckin' marbles are gone (Wait, Em)
But nowadays every flow, every cadence sound the same (Skrrt)
Brain's a powder keg, I draw inspiration outta hate
Real pain in the paper, I don't trace
But if I look strange and outta place
It's 'cause I'm an alien, that's why
I write 'til the page is outta space (Duh!)
From 7 Mile in Novara
To "How can I be down?", all of us tryna pile in the car (Yeah)
We shot for the stars (Yeah)
'Cause we only got so much time in this world (Yeah)
So rewind it to your high school dance to the night before
If you think you're promised tomorrow (Yeah)
Now I'm 'bout to fool again
This tune is sick, it's luminous, the moon is lit
A freakin' lunatic, a human computer chip
And I'm soon to stick a broom in the uterus of your Hooters chick
If I was you, I wouldn't do nothin' stupid due to the mood I'm in
I'm losin' it, you get chewed like a Junior Mint
Show me who to rip, it's time for you to get screwed
Empty the lubricant and put super glue in it (Woo)
How many fuckin' rappers did I go through?
Dispel doubt, but you won't admit I smoked
And you was spellbound, hellbound in my snowsuit
But am I s'posed to sound like everything else out?
'Cause I don't get compared to it, only myself now
Well, I can see the fair-weather fans and sales down
But the only way I care is if I let myself down
But what the fuck have I woke to?
Time to eat the vocals and shit out Pro Tools
I know you still want me to ill out, don't you?
Hopin' the old Slim's gonna spill out, open
Fire on your whole camp with this spit, I roast you
So chill out, no, you
Hoes couldn't roast me with the shit I wrote you
Then I took a stand, went at Tan-Face and practically cut my motherfuckin' fan base in half and still outsold you
You just called my shit trash?
Thank God, I rap better when the odds are stacked
"Revival's wack, I don't like the 'Zombie' track
And when he's talkin' that garbage psychotic crap
Where's your content at?
What's with all the conscious rap?
P!nk, Beyoncé this and Kehlani that" (Yeah)
I just add it to the fuel in my rocket pack
'Til I'm ready to respond, then I'ma launch it at 'em
Idiotic from the fuckin' embryonic sac
To the body bag, I'll be back
And when I am, I'll be at your fuckin' throat like—
[Outro: PHresher]
Like Chloraseptic377Embed

Title: Zeus
Release Date: December 18, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-zeus-lyrics
Song Description: Zeus, featuring New York recording artist White Gold, contains some of Eminems most ruthless bars and name-drops from Music To Be Murdered By: Side B. This is the fourteenth song on the tracklist and the second to feature White Gold. He also appears on You Gon' Learn, alongside Royce da 5'9".

Eminem begins by taking shots at Tekashi 6ix9ine and Machine Gun Kelly, whose long-running beef with Em dates back to 2012.

Backdropped with stellar production by T-Minus and Luca Mauti, Eminem winds his way through a plethora of topics, including references to The Roots own Tariq Black Thought Trotter, Chris Brown and Rihannas 2009 feud, Snoop Doggs 2020 Breakfast Club remarks, a brief tribute to victims of police brutality, and callbacks to his October 2013 hit single, Rap God, among others.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Eminem]
She says I am trash, but she listens to Tekashi (Damn)
Bitch, you lost me (Yeah)
Fair weather, wishy-washy
She thinks machine washed me (What?)
Swear to God, man, her favorite rapper wish he'd cross me (Yeah)
I love conflict, got a obnoxious (What?) subconscious (Yeah)
I'm afraid to unlock it (Nah)
Keep those monsters in the closet
I'm what an idiotic ('Otic) savant is (Savant is)
But I've been throwin' down gauntlets since that underground Rawkus (Yeah)
Where I planted my roots (What? Yeah)
That's how I had a whole planet that roots for me
As in the group, and no one thinks dark as I think (Nah)
So imagine the havoc these black thoughts are to wreak (Tariq)
As in Trotter, I keep slaughterin' beats
Shout out to Beatminerz and T-Minus
But, me, long as I breathe, promise to be honest
And wholeheartedly, apologies, Rihanna
For that song that leaked, I'm sorry, Ri
It wasn't meant to cause you grief
Regardless, it was wrong of me, but

[Chorus: White Gold & Eminem]
I be on my own (Yeah), head up in the clouds like Zeus
When they say, "You ain't the GOAT", I come down like, "Who?"
But I got my head in the clouds like Zeus
Swear I can see the game from a bird's-eye view, ayy
Bitch, you talkin' to a rap god, ayy
Girl, you talkin' to a monsta, ayy
You could give your whole damn life to the music thing
They gon' turn around like they don't love you
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
Yeah, they woke a giant up
So when I get back on my feet, don't wonder why in the
Fuck is my head in the clouds (Nah)
G5 with the stewardess, gettin' head in the clouds (Haha)
Mile-high club (Why?), I give a flying fuck (Fly and fuck, no)
Punchliner just tryin' to survive in this climate of vaginas (Bitch)
Who dyin' to cancel my ass like Aunt Jemima syrup
I'm a shit-stirrer, you're a dime-a
Dozen, said I couldn't do it
Hit Europe, kicked the door in, put a foot through it (Ugh)
Like a stirrup (Stirrup)
Used to have to sit and watch them bills pile up (Yeah)
Now I just sit back and watch them bills pile up (Haha), but

[Chorus: White Gold & Eminem]
I be on my own (Yeah, woo), head up in the clouds like Zeus
When they say, "You ain't the GOAT", I come down like, "Who?"
But I got my head in the clouds like Zeus
Swear I can see the game from a bird's-eye view, ayy
Bitch, you talkin' to a rap god, ayy
Girl, you talkin' to a monsta, ayy
You could give your whole damn life to the music thing
They gon' turn around—

[Verse 3: Eminem]
I've seen them come and go
I've seen the hugest (Hugest) debuts ('Buts)
I've had a great view to see the (See the) game through (Through)
And Drake, they're gonna turn on you (You) one day too (Too)
And the more you win, the sooner (Sooner) they do
They'll be calling you a trash bin
Sayin' that your new one isn't better than your last and
Even if it is, once they start to turn their backs
They ain't never comin' back in
They did it to Chance
Next they'll be mentionin' Future in the past tense (Yeah)
Or sayin' "Adiós" to Migos
I ain't dissin', I'm just tryna keep the shit a C-note (Yeah)
Same people been tryna do the shit to me, so
I call them people (Peephole)
Because they're so easy to see through 'em (See through 'em)
But a fighter's all I knew how to be
I got the shit beat out of me (Yeah)
Tripped and fell and blew out a knee (Pop)
Popped it back in and hopped up like, "Fuck it (Fuck it)
Best two out of three", yeah
Man, I gotta be doin' (What?) somethin' right
I got eleven years of sobriety (Yeah)
So the only bottom I'ma be hittin' is if it's sodomy
Wait, I mean, you would think that somebody handed a saw to me (Sodomy)
How I'm choppin' these bars
They keep wantin' me to rap responsibly
When I'm constantly passin' the buck like the fuckin' Dollar Tree
But I'ma always remind you that I came from poverty
Black people saved my life, from the Doc and Deshaun
And all that we want is racial equality
R.I.P. Laquan McDonald, Trayvon, and Breonna
Atatiana, Rayshard, and Dominique
Eric Garner and Rodney King
No, we can't get along 'til these white motherfuckin' cops
Who keep murderin' Blacks are off the streets (Off the streets)
And, as far as squashin' beef, I'm used to people knockin' me
But, just not in my camp
And diplomatic as I'm tryna be
Last thing I need is Snoop doggin' me
Man, Dogg, you was like a (Yeah) damn god to me
Nah, not really (Haha)
I had "dog" backwards
But I'm startin' to think, all these people takin' shots at me
Shit, it's no wonder
[Chorus: White Gold, White Gold & Eminem]
I be on my own, head up in the clouds like Zeus
When they say, "You ain't the GOAT", I come down like, "Who?"
But I got my head in the clouds like Zeus
Swear I can see the game from a bird's-eye view, ayy
Bitch, you talkin' to a rap god, ayy
Girl, you talkin' to a monsta, ayy
You could give your whole damn life to the music thing
They gon' turn around like they don't love you134Embed

Title: Infinite
Release Date: November 12, 1996, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-infinite-lyrics
Song Description: This is Eminems first song from his identically titled first album. The title is an ode to scientific concepts, such as infinity  the concept of having no limits or boundaries in time, space, extent, or magnitude.

Eminem uses an intricate rhyme scheme throughout this song:



Also notice the heavy presence of Nas throughout the song. Before the rhyming starts, hes invoked in loose quotations of One Time 4 Your Mind and Represent, while the beat recalls that of Half Time.

As Eminem wrote about this time period in Angry Blonde:

The Hip-Hop Shop was a spot in Detroit where all of the citys illest emcees would meet. It was a regular hangout for me. Back in the Hip-Hop Shop days, there were verses that I would throw out in the Shop. I would just use them in there. Once I started getting a rep, I actually used one of those verses for an open mic and people were trippin on it so I thought 'Fuck it. I gotta finish it. I finished the verses and made them into this song. D-12s denaun (aka Kon Artis) used to do all my beats and he had the original track. I personally think this was the best song I did on the album. That was 95, 96  the era of just rhyming for the hell of it. People at one point actually said I sounded like Nas, cause I used all these big words. This is show-your-skill type of shit.

This song was remastered and re-released on November 17th, 2016 on digital (iTunes and Spotify) for the first time.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Mr. Porter & Jeff Bass]
[Intro]
Aw, yeah (It's like this, like this)
It's Eminem, baby
Back up in that motherfuckin' ass
('Til forever, 'til forever)
One time for your motherfuckin' mind (For MCs, MCs)
We represent the 313—you know what I’m sayin'?
Yo, they don’t know shit about this, for the '96

[Verse 1]
Ayo, my pen and paper cause a chain reaction
To get your brain relaxin', the zany actin' maniac in action
A brainiac, in fact, son, you mainly lack attraction
You look insanely wack when just a fraction of my tracks runs
My rhymin' skills got you climbin' hills
I travel through your mind and chill your spine like siren drills
I'm slimin' grills of roaches with spray that disinfects
And twistin' necks of rappers 'til their spinal column disconnects
Put this in decks and check the monologue, turn your system up
Twist 'em up and indulge in the marijuana smog
This is the season for noise pollution contamination
Examination of more car-tunes than animation
My lamination of nar-er-ration, hits a snare and bass
On a track for duck rapper interrogation
When I declare invasion, there ain't no time to be starin' gazin'
I turn the stage into a barren wasteland
I'm infinite
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
You heard of Hell, well, I was sent from it
I went to it, servin' a sentence for murderin' instruments
Now I'm tryin' to repent from it, but when I hear the beat
I'm tempted to make another attempt at it
I'm infinite

[Verse 2]
Bust it, I let the beat commence
So I can beat the sense in your elite defense
I got some meat to mince
Some fruit to stomp, and then two feet to rinse
I greet the gents and ladies, I spoil loyal fans
I foil plans and leave fluids leakin' like oil pans
My coiled hands around this microphone are lethal
One thought in my cerebral is deeper than a jeep-full of people
MCs are feeble, I came to cause some pandemonium
Battle a band of phony MCs and stand the lonely one
Imitator intimidator, stimulator
Simulator of data, eliminator
There's never been a greater since the burial of Jesus
Fuck around and catch all the venereal diseases
My thesis'll smash a stereo to pieces
My acappella releases classic masterpieces, through telekinesis
It eases you mentally, gently
Sentimentally, instrumentally
With entity, dementedly meant to be infinite
[Chorus]
You heard of Hell, well, I was sent from it
I went to it, servin' a sentence for murderin' instruments
Now I'm tryin' to repent from it, but when I hear the beat
I'm tempted to make another attempt at it
I'm infinite

[Verse 3]
Man, I got evidence, I'm never dense
And I've been clever ever since
My residence was hesitant to do some shit that represents the MO
So I'm assumin' all responsibility
'Cause there's a monster real in me that always wants to kill MCs
Mic nestler, slammin' like a wrestler
Here to make a mess of a lyric-smugglin' embezzler
No one is specialer, my skill is intergalactical
I get cynical, act a fool then I send a crew back to school
I never packed a tool or acted cool, it wasn't practical
I'd rather let a tactical, tactful track tickle your fancy
In fact, I can't see, or can't imagine
A man who ain't a lover of beats or a fan of scratchin'
So this is for my family, the kid who had a cameo
On my last jam plus the man who never had a plan B
Be all you can be
‘Cause once you make an instant hit, I'm tensed a bit
And tempted when I see the sins my friends commit
I'm infinite
[Chorus]
You heard of Hell, well, I was sent from it
I went to it, servin' a sentence for murderin' instruments
Now I'm tryin' to repent from it, but when I hear the beat
I'm tempted to make another attempt at it
I'm infinite
You heard of Hell, well, I was sent from it
I went to it, servin' a sentence for murderin' instruments
Now I'm tryin' to repent from it, but when I hear the beat
I'm tempted to make another attempt at it
I'm infinite

[Outro: Mr. Porter]
'95 ('95), '96 ('96)
And on, and on, and on, and on (And on)

Title: The Warning
Release Date: July 30, 2009, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-the-warning-lyrics
Song Description: Released in the summer of 2009, this track is a response to Mariah Careys song Obsessed which was an Eminem diss.

In this song, Eminem disses Mariah Carey and her husband Nick Cannon, telling us some things he probably shouldnt. The beat was produced by the legendary Dr. Dre, Ems mentor.

Eminem has been taking muted shots at Mariah going all the way back to Superman and When the Music Stops back in 2002, but this is the first track where he really went in for the kill. Its worth noting that Mariah has largely kept her mouth shut ever since.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Only reason I dissed you in the first place
Is 'cause you denied seeing me, now I'm pissed off

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Sit back, homie, relax, in fact, grab a six pack
Kick back while I kick facts, yeah, Dre—sick track
Perfect way to get back, wanna hear something wick-wack?
I got the same exact tat that's on Nick's back
I'm obsessed now, oh gee
Is that supposed to be me in the video with the goatee?
Wow Mariah, didn't expect you to go balls out
Bitch, shut the fuck up 'fore I put all them phone calls out
You made to my house when you was wildin' out before Nick
When you was on my dick and give you something to smile about
How many times you fly to my house, still tryin' to count
Better shut your lyin' mouth if you don't want Nick findin' out
You probably think 'cause it's been so long
If I had something on you I woulda did it by now
Oh, on the contrary, Mary Poppins, I'm mixin' our studio session down
And sendin' it to masterin' to make it loud
Enough dirt on you to murder you
This is what the fuck I do; Mariah it ever occur to you
That I still have pictures? However you prefer to do
And that goes for Nick too, faggot, you think I'm scurred of you?
You're gonna ruin my career, you better get one
Like I'ma sit and fight with you over some slut bitch cunt
That made me put up with her psycho ass over six months
And only spread her legs to let me hit once, yeah
What you gonna say, I'm lucky? Tell the public that I was so ugly
That you fuckin' had to be drunk to fuck me?
Second base, what the fuck you tell Nick, Pumpkin?
The second week we were dry humpin', that's gotta count for somethin'
Listen, girly, surely you don't want me to talk about how I nutted early
'Cause I ejaculated prematurely
And bust all over your belly and you almost started hurling
And said I was gross, go get a towel, your stomach's curling
Or maybe you do
But if I'm embarrassin' me, I'm embarrassin' you and don't you dare say it isn't true
As long as that song's gettin' airplay, I'm dissin' you
I'm a hair away from gettin' carried away and gettin' sued
I was gonna stop at sixteen, that was thirty-two
This is thirty-four bars, we ain't even third of the way through
Damn Slim, Mariah played you, Mariah who?
Oh did I say "whore," Nick? I meant a liar too (Ha)
Like I've been goin' off on you all this time
For no reason, girl, you out your alcoholic mind
Check your wine cellar, look at the amounts of all the wine
Like I fuckin' sit around and think about you all the time
I just think this shit is funny when I pounce you on a rhyme
But fuck it, now I'm 'bout to draw the line
And for you to cross it that's a mountain that I doubt you wanna climb
I can describe areas of your house you wouldn't find
On an episode of Cribs, a blow below the ribs
If I hear another word so don't go openin' your jibs
'Cause every time you do it's like an overload of fibs
I ain't sayin' this shit again, ho, you know what it is
It's a warning shot, 'fore I blow up your whole spot
Call my bluff and I'll release every fuckin' thing I got
Includin' the voicemails right before you flipped your top
When me and Luis were tryin' to stick two CDs in the same slot
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Interlude: Mariah Carey]
Slim Shady, artful dodger
Slim Shady, artful dodger

[Verse 2: Eminem & Mariah Carey]
(I love you) I love you, too
Let me whisper sweet nothings into your ear, boo
Now what you say? (It's nothing) Yeah, so what I'll do
Is refresh your memory when you said (I want you)
Now should I keep goin' or should we call truce?
(You think you're cute, right?) You bet your sweet ass I do
(I'm Mary Poppins, baby) And I'm Superman, ooh
(Mary P; Slim Shady) Comin' at you
So if you'll still be my (Baby girl)
Then I'll still be your (Superhero)
(Oh and Em?) Yeah, I'm right here
(You like this) Nope, not anymore, dear
It cuts like a (Knife) when I tell you get a (Life)
But I'm movin' on with mine, Nick, is that  your (Wife)
Well tell her to shut her mouth then I'll leave her alone
If she don't (Stick to the script) then I'ma just keep goin'
Damn

[Outro: Mariah Carey]
I see Mary Ann, Mary Ann's saying cut the tape
Cut the tape, knife94Embed

Title: Rhyme or Reason
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-rhyme-or-reason-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem just goes off on a lyrical hate spew against everything especially, his dad. He switches the script from earlier albums; instead of writing a diss track against his mother, as he did in 2002, on Marshall Mathers LP 2 he apologizes to his mother and writes a diss track against his father.

Like this Black Hippy song  and this skit by Logic, it contains samples from this classic rock song  The Zombies 1969 classic Time of the Season.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Sample + Eminem]
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah yeah
("What's your name?") Marshall
("Who's your daddy?") I don't have one

[Verse 1]
My mother reproduced like the komodo dragon
And had me on the back of a motorcycle, then crashed in
The side of loco-motive with rap, I'm
Loco, it's like handing a psycho a loaded handgun
Michelangelo with a paint gun in a tantrum
'Bout to explode all over the canvas
Back with the Yoda of rap, "In a spasm
Your music usually has 'em
But waned for the game your enthusiasm it hasn't
Follow you must, Rick Rubin my little Padawan."
A Jedi in training, colossal brain and
Thoughts are entertainin'
But docile and impossible to explain and, I'm also vain and
Probably find a way to complain about a Picasso painting
Puke Skywalker, but sound like Chewbacca when I talk
Full of such blind rage, I need a seein' eye dog
Can't even find the page I was writing this rhyme on
Oh, it's on the ram-page
Couldn't see what I wrote, I write small
It says, "Ever since I drove a '79 Lincoln with whitewalls
Had a fire in my heart
And a dire desire to aspire to Die Hard."
So as long as I'm on the clock, punching this time card
Hip-hop ain't dying on my watch
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Now sometimes when I'm sleepin'
She comes to me in my dreams
Is she taken? Is she mine?
Don't got time, don't care, don't have two shits to give
Let me take you by the hand to promised land
And threaten everyone
'Cause there's no rhyme or no reason for nothing

[Post-Chorus: Sample + Eminem]
("Now, what's your name?") Marshall
("Who's your daddy?") I don’t know him, but I wonder—
("Is he rich like me?") Ha
("Has he taken any time to show you what you need to live?")

[Verse 2]
No, if he had
He wouldn't have ended up in these rhymes on my pad
I wouldn't be so mad, my attitude wouldn't be so bad
Yeah, Dad, I'm the epitome and the prime
Example of what happens when the power of the rhyme
Falls into the wrong hands and
Makes you want to get up and start dancin'
Even if it is Charles Manson
Who just happens to be rappin', blue lights flashin'
Laughin' all the way to the bank, lampin' in my K-Mart mansion
I’m in the style department
With a pile in my cart, rippin' the aisle apart but
With great power comes
Absolutely no responsibility for content
Completely despondent and condescending
The king of nonsense and controversy is on a
Beat-killing spree, Your Honor
I must plead guilty, 'cause I sparked a revolution
Rebel without a cause who caused the evolution
Of rap, to take it to the next level, boost it
But several rebuked it, and whoever produced it
("Hip-hop is the Devil's music")
Does that mean it belongs to me?
'Cause I just happen to be a white honky devil with two horns
That don't honk but every time I speak you hear a beep
But lyrically I never hear a peep, not even a whisper
Rappers better stay clear of me, bitch, 'cause it's the—
[Chorus]
It's the time of the season
When hate runs high
And this time, I won't give it to you easy
When I take back what's mine
With pleasured hands
And torture everyone, that is my plan
My job here isn't done
'Cause there's no rhyme or no reason for nothing

[Post-Chorus: Sample + Eminem]
("What's your name?") Shady
("Who's your daddy?") I don’t give a fuck, but I wonder
("Is he rich like me?") Doubt it, ha
("Has he taken any time to show you what you need to live?")

[Verse 3]
So, yeah, Dad—let's walk
Let's have us a father-and-son talk
But I bet we wouldn't probably get one block
Without me knocking your block off, this is all your fault
Maybe that's why I'm so bananas I a-ppealed to all those walks
Of life, whoever had strife
Maybe that's what dad and son talks are like
'Cause I related to the struggles of young America
When their fucking parents were unaware of their troubles
Now they're rippin' out their fuckin' hair again, it's hysterical
I chuckle as everybody bloodies their bare knuckles
Yeah, uh-oh, better beware, knuckle heads!
The sign of my hustle says:
"Don't knock”, the door's broken, it won't lock
It might just fly open, get cold-cocked
You critics come to pay me a visit?
Misery loves company, please stay a minute!
Kryptonite to a hypocrite
Zip your lip if you dish it but can't take it
Too busy gettin' stoned in your glass house
To kick rocks, then you wonder why I lash out
Mr. Mathers as advertised on the flyers, so spread the word
'Cause I'm promoting my passion 'til I'm passed out
Completely brain-dead: Rain Man
Doing a Bankhead in a restraint chair
So, bitch, shoot me a look, it better be a blank stare
Or get shanked in the pancreas
I'm angrier than all eight other reindeer
Put together with Chief Keef 'cause I hate every fuckin' thang, yeah
Even this rhyme, bitch
And quit tryin' look for a fuckin' reason for it that ain't there
But I still am a "Criminal!"
Ten-year-old degenerate grabbin' on my genitals!
The last Mathers LP done went diamond
This time I'm predicting that this one will go emerald! (Hehe)
When will the madness end?
How can it when there's no method to the pad and pen?
The only message that I have to send
Is: "Dad, I'm back at it again!"
[Outro]
Bitch… (Who's your daddy?)

Title: Stepping Stone
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-stepping-stone-lyrics
Song Description: Stepping Stone is the latest in a series of songs apologizing to people who have been negatively affected by Ems career. The previously released Headlights and Bad Husband, apologized to his mother, Debbie Mathers, and his ex-wife, Kim Mathers, respectively. Stepping Stone is dedicated to Ems rap group D12.

Boosted by Ems personal achievements as a solo act, D12 was thrust into the limelight. Their two albums Devils Night and D12 World debuted as number one and went on to sell millions of copies. However, the group faded after the untimely death of group member Proof in 2006.

A stepping stone is a term used to describe a means of progress, and in this song is used to refer to how D12 wound up being an unintentional career boost for Em, while the rest of D12 were eventually left behind. Notably, in the last verse, Em states that D12 is finished, and the group is now officially disbanded.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Mario Resto]
Take me to the river
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah

[Verse 1: Eminem]
It's 2002, everything was totally new
We were globally huge, watchin' sales go through the roof
We wrote and we feuded, Runyon Avenue soldiers included
A multitude of homies who would pounce for no good excuse
We were so bulletproof—wrote, souped, and soaked in our youth
Thought we was runnin' shit 'til we lost the sole of our shoe
The death of Doody broke us in two
We were thrown for a loop, ain't none of us know what to do
And at the time I was goin' through my own struggles too
So I wasn't in no condition to be coachin' us through
Everyone tried to go solo, really nobody blew
I was hopin' they do, so I ain't have to shoulder the crew
The plan was put everyone in position so that they knew
How to stand on their own, and I don't wanna open up wounds
I just noticed that oomph was gone when we go in the booth
'Cause the truth is, the moment that Proof died, so did the group
Shoot!

[Pre-Chorus: Mario Resto, Eminem & Both]
If I could leave this all behind
I could open up my eyes and walk in a straight line
Down to the river with you
Help me leave this all behind
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
I'ma wash away my sins
I'ma rinse away this dirt
I forgot to make amends
To all the friends I may have hurt
I better stop and say my grace
From it I pray that I don't fall
'Cause on the way back down I may
End up runnin' back into them all
I never meant to use you all as my stepping stones

[Verse 2: Eminem]
It was never the same, and it's bothered me since
And the farther we drift apart, the more awkward it gets
The more time goes by, the more life happens
And we gotta be men, we got responsibilities
Plus we don't say how we feel
And I feel like this is what got us in the debacle we're in
Been with you guys thick and thin
But it's almost as if sometimes we're not even friends
Which reminded me, Biz, "Rockstar" was the shit
Y'all coulda got you a hit without me on the shit
If you'da put D12 on it, wish I coulda did
More to try talkin' you into comin' up off it
I know it wasn't my fault, but part of it probably is
I think of all of the trips to BET
And the rappers I wish that we woulda politicked with
Maybe y'all coulda clicked and got you some features
But that's water under the bridge
But I'm washin' my sins in it 'til my conscience is cleansed
[Pre-Chorus: Mario Resto, Eminem & Both]
If I could leave this all behind
I could open up my eyes and walk in a straight line
Down to the river with you
Help me leave this all behind

[Chorus]
I'ma wash away my sins
I'ma rinse away this dirt
I forgot to make amends
To all the friends I may have hurt
I better stop and say my grace
From it I pray that I don't fall
'Cause on the way back down I may
End up runnin' back into them all
I never meant to use you all as my stepping stones

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Bacardi and Hen', never thought the party would end
One minute you're bodyin' shit, but then your audience splits
You can already sense the climate is startin' to shift
To these kids you no longer exist
Went from rainin' cats and dogs in this bitch
To tiny drops, little drips
And by the time your reign is over, you'll hardly be missed
You start thinkin' of all the artists you dissed
All the carnage you left, is this the kind of karma you get
For turnin' your fuckin' back on Bizzy, Kuniva, and Swift?
A Freudian slip, subconsciously, I honestly wished
I ain't feel so much guilt and y'all didn't harbor resentment
But it's hard to pretend that y'all ain't got none
I just wish I had words, but I guess there just are none for this
To my partners, I can't say how sorry I am
This is not how I planned for our story to end
I love all of you men
But I just can't be the guy everybody depends
On for entire careers 'cause that's not even fair
I will always be here, but that spark isn't there
And I don't know how to recapture that time and that era
I've tried hearkening back to, but I'm fightin' for air
I'm barely chartin' myself
Feels like I'm on the descent, but it was not my intent
To treat y'all like a stepping stone
Though I ain't left no one behind, but we been down every road
Done all we possibly can, I know we kept our hopes up
But the longer we spend livin' this lie that we live
The less is left for closure, so let's let this go
It's not goodbye to our friendship, but D12 is over
[Chorus: Eminem]
I'ma wash away my sins
I'ma rinse away this dirt
I forgot to make amends
To all the friends I may have hurt
I better stop and say my grace
From it I pray that I don't fall
'Cause on the way back down I may
End up runnin' back into them all
I never meant to use you all as my stepping stones

[Outro: Eminem]
I never meant to make you feel like my stepping stones
I never meant to use you all for my stepping stones161Embed

Title: Campaign Speech
Release Date: October 19, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-campaign-speech-lyrics
Song Description: Eminems Campaign Speech, much like his last freestyle leading up to an album, is a verbal onslaught with dense wordplay and rhyme schemes devoid of reverence for anyone famous or infamous. From Dylann Roof to Trayvon Martin, Donald Trump to Edward Norton, Eminem leaves no one out.

A campaign speech is meant to express what you stand for and believe in when running for a position of power. The song fittingly dropped the day of the third presidential debate, 19 days before the 2016 election.

The seven and just over half minute freestyle was released on October 19, 2016 on Shade45s Sway in The Morning.
Lyrics:

Jumped out of the 2nd floor of a record store
With a Treacherous Four cassette and a cassette recorder
In Ecuador with Edward Norton
Witness the metamorphosis
Of a legend growin' like an expert swordsman
From the Hessian war and
Hence the origin of the Headless Horseman
Born with the endorphins of a pathetic orphan
Endless source and reservoir
Of extension cords in dresser drawers
And deadbolts on the bedroom doors
And sexual torture kits kept in a separate storage bin
Excellent boyfriend
Use intercourse to settle scores
With women who have vendettas towards men
Dickhead is forced in 'til there's shredded foreskin
Reddish torn and they're only bein' fed a portion
Bed sores and sore shins
Pregnant whores can get abortions
Fetish for stickin' metal forks in, self-absorption
Skeletor, I went to Hell and fell a floor
A predator, I'm headed for competitors
Better warn 'em, what I lack in tact and a set of morals
I make up for in metaphors like a cosmetic store
Stegosaurus, Chuck Norris with a thesaurus
Yes, of course, a mess of warrants
You want some? Come and get some, boys!
I'm givin' Daniel Pantaleo a refresher course
On excessive force and pressure points
And dressin' George Zimmerman in a fluorescent orange
Dress and four inch heels to address the court
With a bullseye on his back, his whole chest and torso
Are left on the doorsteps of Trayvon's dad as a present for him
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also likeIn my present form I'm Desert Storm
Appetite for destruction there's no suppressant for
Aggressive, forceful, and less remorseful in every morsel
Unpleasant, horrible; hello, gorgeous!
The rebel with devil horns just fell off the yellow short bus
Met a contortionist, said, "When you wanna get sexual?"
She said, "However I fit in your schedule. I'm flexible."
Expired tags on the Saturn, got Catherine Bach
In the back in Daisy Dukes with the hazards on
At a traffic stop gettin' harassed, sign an autograph
For this asshole cop's daughter
Laugh 'cause I called her a brat on it
He spat on it and brought it back lookin' half in shock
Had a heart attack and dropped dead
Started fallin' back with it
And got slapped with a Colin Kaepernick practice sock
One ball and half a dick, Apple Watch
Crack front axle, walked in a Bass Pro Shop with David Hasselhoff, pulled Tabasco sauce out of my satchel
Knocked over a fisherman's tackle box and *crash sound*
Asked if they had a laugh in stock
That was fuckin' stupid…
You got it twisted, all 'cause I offered this bitch
A doggie biscuit, you call me misogynistic
Bitch, get to massagin' this dick!
Like spas in this bitch, slob on it with gobs of lipstick
Got a shoppin' list for you to run some odds and ends with
There's not a bitch on this earth I can be monogamous with
She's non-existent
Robin Thicke with a throbbin' dick on some suave and slick shit
But I shout derogatives at bitches like fuckin' missile launches
Misfit, blond and nitwit
Like I've gone ballistic, with a frostin' tip kit
Screamed, "I hate blondes," and became one, I'm optimistic
Love to start shit
Shovin' Clark Kent's undergarments in the glove compartment
Of the bucket, bumpin' Bubba Sparxxx
I'm double parkin' up at Targets, trouble causer, a double crosser
Shadiest mothafucka you'll ever come across
Olympic gymnast, been known for some assaults
A couple lawsuits, enough to cause a stomach ulcer
Same damn brain scan results as Rainman's is
Something's off, but when Dustin Hoffman's
Dressin' up in your mummy costume
On stage dancin' to "Brain Damage," what's the problem?
Nothing's wrong, the name brand is back to reclaim status
Run the faucet, I'ma dunk
A bunch of Trump supporters underwater
Snuck up on 'em in Ray-Bans in a gray van with a spray tan
It's a wrap, like an ACE bandage
Don't-give-a-fuck persona, to my last DNA strand
E&J in the waistband, at the VMAs with the stagehand
She wants kielbasa, pre-arrange an escape plan
Three-inch blade on point, like a See-and-Say
Consider me a dangerous man
But you should be afraid of this dang candidate
You say Trump don't kiss ass like a puppet
'Cause he runs his campaign with his own cash for the fundin'
And that's what you wanted
A fuckin' loose cannon who's blunt with his hand on the button
Who doesn't have to answer to no one—great idea!
If I was president, gettin' off is
The first order of business, once I get in office
Second thing that'll make me happy's walkin' up to Uncle Sam
Naked, laughin', dick cupped in hand
Screamin', "Fuck safe sex!"
Throw a latex and an AIDS test at him
Tell Congress I run this land
And I want the rubber banned, and make it snappy
Addiction to friction and static
Addict who can't escape the habit
Continue to chase the dragon
But as fate would have it, I walked up in Major Magics
Dressed as the maintenance man
In a laser tag vest and a racin' jacket
With a gauge to blast it
And sped away in the station wagon
Stacey Dash's and Casey Anthony's
Crazy asses in the backseat
Throwin' Stayfree pads at me
Dead passenger in the passenger seat
Unfasten the safety latches
And slam on the brakes in traffic so hard
I snapped the relocation brackets for the monster tires
'Finna get a murder case and catch it
Like you threw it at me encased in plastic
And send Dylann Roof through the windshield of the Benz
Until he spins like a pinwheel and begins feelin'...
Like a windmiller with a thin build while his skin's peelin'
And skids 'til he hits a cement pillar
Swing for the fence like Prince Fielder
Knock it into the upper peninsula
You wanna go against 'zilla? The Rap God
When will I quit? Never been realer
The in-stiller of fear, not even a scintilla of doubt
Whose pen's iller than Prince in a chinchilla
Or Ben Stiller in a suspense thriller
Revenge killer, avenge syllable binge
Fill a syringe, 'til I
Draw first blood
Even pop shit on my pop shit, and it's popular
Couldn't be more awkwarder
'Cause your innocence I robbed you of
It's my fingers that got stuck up
Taught ya ta not give a
Slapstick, hockey puck
The broad hunter with the sawed off
Like an arm when it's lopped off of ya
But I'm not gonna get the shotgun
Or Glock, I'ma opt for the ox
Cause I'm into objects that are sharp when I shop
And it's not a shock, I'm such an obnoxious fucker
The Rock Hudson of rock 'cause who would have thought
This much of a cocksucker to go across the buttocks of Vivica Fox with a box cutter
That was for 50, little slap on the wrist be warned
I'm unravelin' quickly
My squabbles, I'm grappling with your time traveling with me
Try and follow, as I wobble, relapse into history, with a flask of the whiskey
Tip it back then I'm twisting wine bottles
Like what happened to Chris Reeve's spine column
That's the plan of attack when I'm fixing my problems
Wish my chest wasn't having to get these rhymes off 'em
But the fact that I have so many rappers against me mind boggles
And why I haven't come back on these faggots who diss me is
More of a spectacular mystery than a fucking Agatha Christie crime novel

But my patience is wearing thin
Swear I been contemplatin' rubbing shit in your face 'til I smear it in
Diss you in every lyric until you fear the pen
And never appear again
If you actually had fuckin' careers to end
But then I think of Molly Qerim and I steer 'em in that direction and forget my ideas for them
Molly, I'm gone off you
Man, light some kush
You're my first take, I'll nail you
Can't lie, I gush
If I won you over, you would be the grand prize
I'm entranced by your looks, come and give the Shady franchise a push
You can get it in the can like some Anheuser-Busch
Jeans too small, least three pant sizes tush
Mushed against your damn side, your puss
And thighs are squished
What kind of attire's that?
I'm ready to be rode
Psychopath, bet you we'll get it poppin' like a flat
Light the match to ignite the wrath
Got knives to slash and slice hermaphrodites in halves
Piper Chapmans might just have to picket me
Like a scab
Hard to describe in fact
Startling violent perhaps
Are things that come to mind as soon as I start spitting rhymes like that
And you aren't really surprised at that
But as far as these lines I rap
And these bars, wouldn't dial it back if I star 69ed the track
Why am I such a dick?

Title: Drug Ballad
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-drug-ballad-lyrics
Song Description: Ems love song!

Slim tells us about his love/hate relationship with alcohol, solvents, ecstasy, and who knows what else. Basically any substance he can cram in to his body, a ballet that continued until 2008, when he left rehab and embarked on sobriety.

This song also is heavily similar to the beat in Cum on Everybody from The Slim Shady LP.

From Eminems book Angry Blonde:

This song is just another one of those tracks that we did one day just fucking around. I wrote the rhyme in about twenty minutes. All three verses. The hook was simple. I hummed Jeff the bass line. I wanted to touch on how last year I was always fucked up. Life was like a big party for me. It was the first year that I blew up and I did a lot of celebrating.

In the clean version of the album, the word drug was removed from the title.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem & Dina Rae]
Yeah, hahahaha
Whoo, shit
Mmm
Oh, oh, mmm
Ehh, ehh
Aight, guess what? I ain't comin' in yet
Oh, oh, ooh, ooh
I'll come in a minute
Ayo, this is my love song, it goes like this
Hey, yeah
[Verse 1: Eminem]
Back when Mark Wahlberg was Marky Mark (Fuckin' faggot)
This is how we used to make the party start
We used to mix Hen with Bacardi Dark
And when it kicks in you can hardly talk
And by the sixth gin you're gon' probably crawl
And you'll be sick then and you'll probably barf
And my prediction is you're gon' probably fall
Either somewhere in the lobby or the hallway wall
And everything's spinnin', you're beginnin' to think women
Are swimmin' in pink linen again in the sink, then in
A couple of minutes that bottle of Guinness is finished
You are now allowed to officially slap bitches
You have the right to remain violent and start wilin'
Start a fight with the same guy that was smart-eyein' you
Get in your car, start it, and start drivin'
Over the island and cause a 42-car pile-up
Earth calling, pilot to co-pilot
Looking for life on this planet, sir, no sign of it
All I can see is a bunch of smoke flyin'
And I'm so high that I might die if I go by it
Let me outta this place, I'm outta place
I'm in outer space, I've just vanished without a trace
I'm going to a pretty place now where the flowers grow
I'll be back in an hour or so
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Dina Rae]
‘Cause every time I go to try to leave (Whoa)
Something keeps pullin' on my sleeve (Whoa)
I don't wanna, but I gotta stay (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
‘Cause every time I try to tell 'em "no" (No)
They won't let me ever let 'em go (Go)
I'm a sucker all I gotta say (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
[Verse 2: Eminem]
In third grade, all I used to do
Was sniff glue through a tube and play Rubik's Cube
Seventeen years later I'm as rude as Jude
Schemin' on the first chick with the hugest boobs
I've got no game, and every face looks the same
They've got no name, so I don't need game to play
I just say whatever I want to whoever I want
Whenever I want, wherever I want, however I want
However, I do show some respect to few
This ecstasy's got me standin' next to you
Gettin' sentimental as fuck, spillin' guts to you
We just met, but I think I'm in love with you
But you're on it too, so you tell me you love me too
Wake up in the morning like, "Yo, what the fuck we'd do?"
I gotta go, bitch, you know I got stuff to do
‘Cause if I get caught cheatin', then I'm stuck with you
But in the long run, these drugs are probably
Gonna catch up sooner or later, but fuck it, I'm on one
So let's enjoy, let the X destroy your spinal cord
So it's not a straight line no more
'Til we walk around lookin' like some wind-up dolls
Shit's stickin' out of our backs like a dinosaur
Shit, six hits won't even get me high no more
So bye for now, I'm gonna try to find some more
[Chorus: Eminem & Dina Rae]
‘Cause every time I go to try to leave (Whoa)
Something keeps pullin' on my sleeve (Whoa)
I don't wanna, but I gotta stay (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
‘Cause every time I try to tell 'em "no" (No)
They won't let me ever let 'em go (Go)
I'm a sucker all I gotta say (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
[Verse 3: Eminem]
That's the sound of a bottle when it's hollow
When you swallow it all wallow and drown in your sorrow
And tomorrow you're probably gonna wanna do it again
What's a little spinal fluid between you and a friend?
Screw it! And what's a little bit of alcohol poisonin'?
And what's a little fight? Tomorrow, you'll be boys again
It's your life, live it however you wanna
Mari-ju-ana is everywhere, where was you brought up?
It don't matter as long as you get where you're goin'
‘Cause none of this shit's gonna mean shit where we're goin'
They tell you to stop, but you just sit there ignorin'
Even though you wake up feelin' like shit every mornin'
But you're young, you've got a lot of drugs to do
Girls to screw, parties to crash, sucks to be you
If I could take it all back now, I wouldn't
I would have did more shit that people said that I shouldn't
But I'm all grown up now and upgraded
And graduated to better drugs and updated
But I still got a lotta growing up to do
I still got a whole lotta throwing up to spew
But when it's all said and done, I'll be forty
Before I know it with a 40 on the porch tellin' stories
With a bottle of Jack, two grandkids in my lap
Babysittin' for Hailie while Hailie's out gettin' smashed
[Chorus: Eminem & Dina Rae]
‘Cause every time I go to try to leave (Whoa)
Something keeps pullin' on my sleeve (Whoa)
I don't wanna, but I gotta stay (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
‘Cause every time I try to tell 'em "no" (No)
They won't let me ever let 'em go (Go)
I'm a sucker all I gotta say (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
[Chorus: Eminem & Dina Rae]
‘Cause every time I go to try to leave (Whoa)
Something keeps pullin' on my sleeve (Whoa)
I don't wanna, but I gotta stay (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)
‘Cause every time I try to tell 'em "no" (No)
They won't let me ever let 'em go (Go)
I'm a sucker all I gotta say (Whoa)
These drugs really got a hold of me (Whoa)

[Outro: Eminem]
Drugs really got a hold of me
Really got a hold of me
These drugs really got a hold of me
They really got a hold of me89Embed

Title: Bitch Please 2
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-bitch-please-2-lyrics
Song Description: Bitch Please II is a track from Eminems sophomore LP The Marshall Mathers LP. Its a sequel to a Snoop Dogg track (featuring Xzibit and Nate Dogg) that appeared on his 1999 album No Limit Top Dogg, and features the aforementioned artists, plus Dr. Dre and Shady himself.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Snoop Dogg & Dr. Dre]
Yeah, what up, Detroit?
Nu-uh, nu-uh nuh, no, he didn't (Ah)
They didn't do it again (What-what, you what?)
You shitted on these niggas two times, Dr. Dre?
Oh, fo' sho'
Uh-uh, naw, you smell that?
This is special right here (What-what, what-what-what?)
Yeah, it's a toast to the boogie, baby, uh
To the boogie-oogie-oogie (Aw, yeah)
Ya know, what's crackin', Dre?

[Verse 1: Dr. Dre & Snoop Dogg]
Just let me lay back and kick some old simplistic pimp shit on Slim's shit
And start riots like Limp Bizkit (Limp Bizkit!)
Throw on "Guilty Conscience" at concerts
And watch mosh pits 'til motherfuckers knock each other unconscious (Watch out, nigga!)
Some of these crowds that Slim draws
Is rowdy as Crenshaw Boulevard when it's packed and full of cars
Some of these crowds me and Snoop draw is niggas from Crenshaw
From Long Beach to South Central
Whoa! Not these niggas again
These grown-ass ignorant men with hair-triggers again (Shit!)
You and what army could harm me?
D.R.E. and Shady with Doggy from Long Beach (Westside)
Came a long way to makin' these songs play
It'll be a wrong move to stare at me the wrong way
I got a long Uz' and I carry it all day
Sometimes it's like a nightmare just bein' Andre
But I…
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Snoop Dogg & Eminem]
Somehow, some way
Hello, nigga! You know about Dogg-ay (Snoop Dogg)
And let me cut these niggas up and show 'em where the fuck I'm comin' from
I get the party crackin' from the shit that I be spittin', son (Yeah)
Hit-and-run, get it done, get the funds, split and run (Watch out)
Got about fifty guns and I love
All of 'em the same, bang-bang (Word up)
Damn, baby girl, what's your name? (What's your name?)
I forgot, what'd you say it was? Damn, a nigga buzzed (Fucked up)
Hangin' in the club with my nephew Eminem (What's up, Slim?) What up, Cuz? (What up, Snoop?)
The Great White American Hope (Uh-huh)
Done hooked up with the king of the motherfuckin' West Coast, baby

[Chorus: Nate Dogg & Snoop Dogg]
And you don't really wanna fuck with me
Only nigga that I trust is me
Fuck around and make me bust this heat
That's the devil, they always wanna dance
[Verse 3: Xzibit]
I'm the Head Nigga In Charge, I'm watchin' you move
You're found dead in your garage with ten o'clock news coverage
Gotta love it 'cause I expose the façade
Your little lungs is too small to hotbox with God
All jokes aside, come bounce with us
Standin' over you with a 12 gauge about to bust
It's like ashes to ashes and dust to dust
I might leave in a bodybag, but never in cuffs
So who do you trust? They just not rugged enough
When things get rough, I'm in the club shootin' with Puff
Bitch, please! You must have a mental disease
Assume the position and get back down on your knees
Come on
[Chorus: Nate Dogg & Snoop Dogg]
And you don't really wanna fuck with me
Only nigga that I trust is me
Fuck around and make me bust this heat
That's the devil, they always wanna dance
And you don't really wanna fuck with me
Only nigga that I trust is me
Fuck around and make me bust this heat
That's the devil, they always wanna dance

[Verse 4: Eminem & Snoop Dogg]
Aw, naw! Big Slim Dogg
Eighty pound balls (What?), dick six-inch long (Mm)
Back up in the heezy, baby!
He's Shady! (He's so crazy!) (Ha-ha-ha)
Give me the mic, let me recite 'til Timothy White
Pickets outside the Interscope offices every night
What if he's right? I'm just a criminal makin' a livin' off of the world's misery
What in the world gives me the right to say what I like
And walk around flippin' the bird?
Livin' the urban life like a white kid from the burbs
Dreamin' at night of screamin' at Mom, schemin' to leave
Run away from home and grow to be as evil as me
I just want you all to notice me, and people to see
That somewhere deep down, there's a decent human being in me
It just can't be found, so the reason you've been seeing this me
Is 'cause this is me now, the recent dude who's being this mean
So when you see me dressin' up like a nerd on TV
Or heard the CD usin' the fag word so freely
It's just me bein' me; here, want me to tone it down?
Suck my fuckin' dick, you faggot! You happy now?
Look here:
I start some trouble everywhere that I go (That I go)
Ask the bouncers in the club 'cause they know ('Cause they know)
I start some shit, they throw me out the back door (The back door)
Come back and shoot the club up with a .44 (A .44)
[Chorus: Nate Dogg & Snoop Dogg]
And you don't really wanna fuck with me
Only nigga that I trust is me
Fuck around and make me bust this heat
That's the devil, they always wanna dance
And you don't really wanna fuck with me
Only nigga that I trust is me
Fuck around and make me bust this heat
That's the devil, they always wanna dance

[Outro: Xzibit]
2001 and forever
Slim Shady, Dr. Dre
Snoop Dogg, X to the Z
Nate Dogg, come on, yeah87Embed

Title: Kings Never Die
Release Date: July 10, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-kings-never-die-lyrics
Song Description: Kings Never Die is the second single from the Southpaw Soundtrack, following Eminems Phenomenal. This marks the fifth time that production crew The New Royales has collaborated with Eminem, including the 2013 single Survival. No Doubt front-woman Gwen Stefani provides vocals on the hook.

Throughout the song, Em voices his anger towards critics, wack rappers, and un-informed fans. He, as well as Billy Hope want to be remembered as kings, and theyll do anything to make that a reality.

As it turns out, Eminem answered his own, final question from his 2013 hit Rap God
Lyrics:

[Produced by The New Royales]
[Chorus: Gwen Stefani]
Here to stay
Even when I'm gone
When I close my eyes
Through the passage of time
Kings never die

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I can hear the drummer drummin'
And the trumpets, someone's tryna summon someone
I know something's comin'
But I'm runnin' from it, to be standing at the summit
And plummet, how come it wasn't what I thought it was?
Was it too good to be true?
Have nothin', get it all but too much of it
Then lose it again, did I swallow hallucinogens?
‘Cause if not, where the hell did it go?
‘Cause here I sit in Lucifer’s den by the dutch oven
Just choosing to sin, even if it means I'm sellin' my soul
Just to be the undisputed again
Do whatever I gotta do just to win
‘Cause I got this motherfuckin' cloud over my head
Crown around it, thorns on it
Cracks in it, bet you morons didn't think I'd be back, did ya?
How 'bout that? I’m somehow now back to the underdog
But no matter how loud that I bark
This sport is somethin' I never bow-out at
I complain about the game, I shout and I pout, it's a love-hate
But I found out that I can move a mountain of doubt
Even when you bitches are countin' me out
And I appear to be down for the count
Only time I ever been out and about
Is drivin' around town with my fuckin' whereabouts in a doubt
‘Cause I been lost tryna think of what I did to get here
But I'm not a quitter; gotta get up, give it all I got or give up
Spit on, shit on, stepped on, but kept goin'
I'm tryna be headstrong
But it feels like I slept on my neck wrong
‘Cause you're moving onto the next, but is your respect gone?
‘Cause someone told me that…
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Gwen Stefani]
Kings never die

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Don't give me that sob story, liar, don't preach to the choir
You ain't never even had to reach in the fire to dig deep
Nobody ever handed me shit in life, not even a flyer
Wouldn't even take shit into consideration
Obliterate anyone in the way
I think I see why a lot of rappers get on these features
And try to show out on a track with me
But it'd actually have to be
A fuckin' blow-out to get me to retire
Tell these new artists that kings never die
I know shit has changed in this age, fuck a Twitter page
Did it just say I've been upstaged?
Why am I online? It's driving me crazy
I'm ridin' shotgun tryna get a gauge
On what's hot, but I'm not one to conform
But as days pass in this shit
And opinions sway, I can hear 'em say
If I stay passionate maybe I can stage a miraculous
Comeback, as if I went away
But detractors just say so much for the renegade
Someone's gonna make me blow my composure
Here I go again, center stage, and I feel like I'm in a cage
They so want a champion to fall
It's no wonder why I laugh at 'em
‘Cause why can't we win 'em all?
So fuck what these cynics say!
It just goes to show that when my back's against the wall
And I'm under attack again, that I'll act as if I'm 'posed to
With this pent-up rage, ‘cause all these plaques in my office
On the floor stacked against the door
Are they just metaphors for the odds of me comin' back again?
‘Cause all the accomplishments, accolades, awards
And trophies just don't mean jack anymore
If I'm here today and gone tomorrow, and I'm not gonna be…
[Chorus: Gwen Stefani]
Here to stay
Even when I'm gone
When I close my eyes
Through the passage of time
Kings never die

[Verse 3: Eminem]
I want it, I'm comin' to get it
So you son of a bitches don't duck
You’re gonna get Riddick Bowe’d
Critics'll end up in critical
Think your shit is dope, all you're gonna get is smoked
And I ain't stopping 'til I'm on top again
All alone and on a throne, like a token of respect
Or a homage poem, or an ode I've been owed
Tossed in the air by my own arm
And launched so hard it broke my collarbone
And when it's my time to go
I'm still not leaving, stop for no one, I don't know
But I've been told, an obstacle that blocks your road, ya
Knock it over, time to go for the pot of gold, ‘cause

[Bridge: Eminem]
They say kings never die
Just ask Jam Master Jay
They just grow wings and they fly
So, hands up, reach for the sky!
Try to hold on and prolong these moments
‘Cause in a blink of an eye
They'll be over
[Verse 4: Eminem]
So you're tryna secure your legacy like Shakur
And ensure nobody's ever gonna be what you were
So before you're leavin' this Earth
You want people to feel the fury of a pure evil cerebral, berserk
Deacon of words, syllable genius at work
Plus, I'm thinkin' that they're mistakin' my kindness for weakness; kill 'em with meanness
I went from powdered milk and Farina
To flippin' burgers on the grill for some peanuts
At Gilbert's to arenas, call me Gilbert Arenas
Still appeal to the dreamers
I made it to the silverscreen
But Rocky's still what the theme is
Khalil on the beat, ‘cause makin' the beat
Ain’t the same feelin' to me as killin' the beat is
Or fulfillin' to me is what fillin' a seat is
It's that sound-bombing, Thirstin Howl
Common, underground, Diamond D, Outsidaz
Stomach growl, throbbin' hunger, out-rhymin' everyone
God, just give me one shot, I swear that I won't let you down
I'ma be around forever-and-a-day, even in the ground
You ain't never ever gonna hear 'em say I ain't…
[Chorus: Gwen Stefani]
Here to stay
Even when I'm gone
When I close my eyes
Through the passage of time
Kings never die
Kings never die478Embed

Title: Premonition (Intro)
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-premonition-intro-lyrics
Song Description: The opening track of Ems eleventh studio album starts off by commenting on the reception of his previous albums. Revival, released In 2017, was widely considered as a weak album, with too many pop-features and weak lyrics. In his 2018 album Kamikaze, Em responded to the criticism he received, and started a fiery attack at the mumble rap scene that he continues on this track, setting the precedent for Music to Be Murdered By.

Furthermore, Em uses this track to comment on his career in its entirety, from his years of being undisputed and universally loved, until receiving more criticism for his later projects, a topic that he now has returned to on several albums.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Yeah
So I guess this is what it is, huh?
Think it's obvious
We ain't never gonna see eye to eye
But it's funny
As much as I hate you
I need you
This is music to be murdered by

[Chorus: Nikki Grier]
Got a premonition
I feel the end is near
The beauty starts to fade
The joy has turned to pain
I hear the symphony playin'
Ten thousand violins
Souls floating away like feathers in the wind

[Verse: Eminem]
They said my last album I sounded bitter
No, I sound like a spitter
Who ninety percent of
These hypocrites are tryna get rid of
But why would I get a chip on my shoulder?
I was considered, one time, as the illest
Bitch, I'm still as fly as your zipper
True, I just get richer
But if it was ever all about skrilla
Then I woulda quit a long motherfucking time ago
Bitch, shut the fuck up
I should go say that shit to Tech N9ne or to Jigga
Nobody said shit about 2 Chainz as long as he's been here, shit
No wonder you're mad, now I'm
Looking at them plaques, count 'em (Yeah)
I'm LL Cool J, Bigger and Deffer, that's how come (Uh)
I sell like four mil' when I put out a bad album (What?)
Revival flopped, came back and I scared the crap out 'em
But Rolling Stone stars, I get two and a half outta
Five, and I'll laugh out loud
'Cause that's what they gave BAD back in the day
Which actually made me not feel as bad now, 'cause
If it happened to James
It can happen to Shady
They do the same shit to Brady
More people hate me than love me
This game will make you go crazy
'Bout to go for B-R-O-K-E
I was the G, the O-A-T
Once I was played in rotation
At every radio station
They said I'm lyrically amazing
But I have nothing to say
But then when I put out Revival and I had something to say
They said that they hated the awake me
I lose the rage, I'm too tame
I get it back, they say I'm too angry
I need to get me some Dre beats
No, I should hook up with Tay Keith
Fans keep on pulling me one way
Haters pull me in another
Got more hooks in me than Swae Lee
'Bout to pick up some weights and lift 'til my tattoo of Hailie's face stretches
They said I'm just a whiner, I sound like a baby
I dish it out but can't take it
But I take it, dish it back out
And they get all bent out of shape
This shit's almost comical
Wait, and I meant no disrespect
I wasn't dissin' Tech, that was not a shot at 2 Chainz or to Jay-Z
They probably feel the same way because lately
Instead of us being credited for longevity
And being able to keep it up for this long at this level, we
Get told we'll never be what we were
Bitch, if I was as half as good as I was
I'm still twice as good as you'll ever be
Only way that you're ahead of me's alphabetically
'Cause if you diss me I'm coming after you like the letter V
Killing everything, play this tune, it's your eulogy
It's your funeral, prepare to die
This is music for you to be murdered bySee Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like183Embed

Title: Wicked Ways
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-wicked-ways-lyrics
Song Description: This bonus track from The Marshall Mathers LP2 features the return of Ken Kaniff, Marshalls homosexual character who was last heard on Relapse.

This is Eminems first collabration with X Ambassadors, the second being Bad Husband from Revival.

Ems delivery is similar to his lyrical style on Hell: The Sequel with Royce Da 5'9.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Sam Harris]
I'm gettin' by with my wicked ways
I'm loadin' up and I'm takin' names
I wanna dig my way to hell
I wanna dig my way to hell
I'm getting by with my wicked ways
I'm loading up and I'm taking names
I wanna dig my way to hell
I wanna dig my way to hell

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Guess I got a way with words, I could get away with murder
Ever heard of Asperger's? It's a rare condition
It's what you're sufferin' from when you simply don't care if it's an
Eighty degree day and there's no frickin' air conditionin'
And you can't see the bitch's hair is frizzin'
'Cause you got the windows up, blarin' the system
In your Chevrolet Prizm
The devil ain't on a level same as him
Picture someone who revels in straight masochism
Then imagine him givin' an adjective an ass-whoopin'
So bad they should put his ass in prison
A word bully, I verbally abuse verbs
Like they did somethin' to me personally
Used to get bullied, so I'd cut class and ditch it
Now I bully rap, I'm the shit, faggot (Sniff it)
Cadillac from a K Car
My ass from a hole in the ground, still can't tell 'em apart
Came straight out the trailer park
Screamin', "I'm proud to shop at K-Mart," and it became art
And I'm still fed up and as pissed off as they are
To this day I still get in fights with the same broad
At the same Walmart, arguin' over the same cart
In the middle of the aisle, whilin', I don't give a fuck, I don't play
Bitch, you think you saw this basket first?
You're ass-backwards like motherfuckin' Bob and Silent Jay
Illest shit you could think I would say
Mind's like a pile of clay
When's the last time that you saw a villain with a cape
Ripped a gapin' hole in it, flipped out
Ripped down the drapes, tied 'em around my neck
Went down the fire escape of the Empire State (Oh)
Slipped, fell straight down to the ground
Splattered all over the entire state
And straight to hell, got impaled by the gates (Ooh)
Saw Satan, stuck his face in an ashtray
While I sashayed around flames with a match
And I gave him the gas face
And this ain't got nothin' to do with a scale
Or being gay, little faggot, but by the way
Thoughts are gettin' darker by the day
I'm a combination of Skylar Grey
Tyler, the Creator, and Violent J
It's a fuckin' miracle to be this lyrical
Paint my face with clown makeup and a smiley face
I'm insane, every rhyme I say
Suns you like an ultra-violet ray
I'm sellin' hatred, buffet style, all the shit you can eat
$11.99, so come on and pile a plate
I'm throwin' down the gauntlet to see what hell I can raise
With the rhyme I'm spittin' while I'm shittin' on competition
In the meantime, it's always mean time, I'm gettin'—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Sam Harris]
I'm gettin' by with my wicked ways
I'm loadin' up and I'm takin' names
I wanna dig my way to hell
I wanna dig my way to hell
I'm getting by with my wicked ways
I'm loading up and I'm taking names
I wanna dig my way to hell
I wanna dig my way to hell

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I've been a career asshole
I don't see why these people always got my back
I done said so much fucked up shit
I was born a mistake, but I was put here not by accident
I had a purpose and that purpose
Was to beat a beat purplish, slaughter tracks
I done put my two dimes and a nickel in this shit
I'm comin' to get that quarter back
Like Ndamukong, the drama can build
Your mama can ask me for my autograph
'Cause that cougar's a MILF
She's the oldest trick in the book, but I sure would fall for that
You done brought a bat to a rocket launcher fight
When I get on the mic I'ma snap
Make you wish the ambulance that took me to the hospital
When I overdosed woulda caught a flat
If it makes you sick to your stomach, acid indigestion
My suggestion's Kaopectate
If it feels like I'm runnin' away with the game
It's 'cause I am, don't speculate, spectate
All I got is dick for days and insults for decades
But I get by with my wicked ways
Lady, you can suck a dick 'til your neck aches
Cry 'til you get puffy eyes, red faced
But I'm leavin' on this jet plane
You ain't fly, you're an airhead
And I'm sick of poundin' a square peg in a round hole
Sorry, another catchphrase
But your baggage ain't gon' fit in my storage overhead space
'Cause it just ain't big enough to fit your damaged goods
Other words: don't try to put your heart in a headcase
'Cause, baby, stable mentally I ain't
I need my meds, I peed my bed
I'm going blind, I don't see my legs, I keep on falling down
No wonder you can't stand me, I need my cane
Someone help me, I think my face is melting
If you felt these migraines
And see these maggots eat my brain
This G-I-A-N-T hole in my empty head
If you read my mind, you can see my pain
And you'd see why I be this way
Ever since I was knee-high playin' with G.I. Joes
Told these hoes shut their P-I-E holes, now peep my game
'Cause I'm 'bout it 'bout it
Like a fuckin' (Fuckin') echo (Echo)
(Psych) Psycho on a cyclone cycle, spiralin', here I go
I'm outta control like no other mic go
Stab you 'til the knife goes – dull
I'm nothin' but a hole inside your skull where your eye goes
'Cause I'ma sock it to you!
Dyke ho, you don't like it?
Get on your Harley Davidson menstrual cycle
And ride it like a motorbike
I'm finna blow the mic the whole night, so
Strike up the fuckin' maestro, I'm nitro
And hi, ho, hand me my shovel!
I'm liable to dig my hole deeper
And it's off to H-E double hockey sticks, I go
[Chorus: Sam Harris]
I'm gettin' by with my wicked ways
I'm loadin' up and I'm takin' names
I wanna dig my way to hell
I wanna dig my way to hell
I'm getting by with my wicked ways
I'm loading up and I'm taking names
I wanna dig my way to hell
I wanna dig my way to hell

[Outro/Skit: Eminem & Ken Kaniff]
Oh, please be empty, please be empty, please be empty
Oh, thank you, God, oh
Shit
The fuck?
The fuck?
Is that a girl?
Eh, oh
Yeah, I'm gonna rock this blouse and put a cock in mouth
And get my balls blew out, and get gay into the A.M.​
And lay with eighteen guys naked, and let myself show, let myself show (How do I know that voice?)
Buttfuck it, suck it, pull it, tug it
Life's too short to not stroke your bone
Fuckin' serious?
So everybody, everybody
Circle jerk, touch my body, ayy, f—, ayy (Ah)
Mm, who is that? Where are you going? Eh, come back
Why does everyone always leave me?
Hello? Well, fuck you then
Blow it out your ass157Embed

Title: Good Guy
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-good-guy-lyrics
Song Description: This song mainly continues off of the previous track on the album, Nice Guy, in which Eminem talks about confusing relationships and how he tries to turn them into stable, healthy relationships. Jessie Reyez is also featured on the track.
Lyrics:

[Verse: Eminem]
Here we go aga-ain, from heroes to villains
Used to be your Romeo, but we both were jilted
A couple of times, so we had a slippery slope to deal with
But still, it gave me hope that we'll get
Through it together, a severed earlobe
Mailed to you in a E-N-V-E-lope
Would be dope, but what kind of lengths can you go?
Pull a Vincent van Gogh, just to convince a damn ho (Damn ho)
To be a housewife who outright lies
She's blackout drunk, now she's backin' out my drive
I ran outside, why is she tryna act out?
She's just about my size, hit me in the mouth twice
Guys, when someone you'd die for
Sticks a steak knife in your heart, do you try more?
Another late night in, she stumbles through my door
Lets the daylight in and all we do's fight more
And I ain't violent, but she's goin' through my drawers (Illa, Illa, Illa)
To plant the K-Y in, I'm gettin' accused by a whore
Who smells like St. Ides and who's prob'ly screwed five more
Guys, sucked eight-nine men
I'm takin' two-by-fours to our eight-by-tens
Bitch, it's you I tore out the frame, I win
Put up a new high score, beat this game I'm in
And here's some two-ply for when you date my friends
In order to wipe your ass when you moved your bowels
When we renewed our vows, this the thanks I get?
I'm waitin' for the day I can
Hear you say, "Marshall, what a skank I've been."
"And there's a new guy, you're being replaced by him."
Got your tubes tied for him, got that boob job for him
Hurts me to my core, but the pain I'm in
After you, I swore to make the grey skies end
Here come the rays like when
You get a pay hike and
Am I the good guy or do I just play like him (Illa, Illa, Illa)
And hope that he dumps you?
It's like a dream come true, just to scream "Fuck you!" (Fuck you!)
Guess you take life in the same way you play dice then
'Cause you just look at me and roll them little snake eyes in
Since—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Jessie Reyez]
Since you bought the jury, they'll call me guilty
They'll call me guilty
You bought the jury, they'll call me guilty
Even though you know the real me
You can't beat a cheater, convince a nonbeliever
And I ain't in my feelings, I'm out
But I'll let you say that you're the good guy
'Cause this ain't what love looks like
You can't beat a cheater, convince a nonbeliever
I ain't in my feelings, I'm out
But I'll let you say that you're the good guy
Play like you're the good guy
Play like, play like, play like you're the good guy174Embed

Title: Asshole
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-asshole-lyrics
Song Description: With Ems lyrical complexity at an all time high, he spits, as the title may suggest, like an asshole. On this Skylar Grey featured track that plays on all the backlash of the original MMLPs musical content as support, Em throws back to My Name Is sampling the lyric, Thanks for the support, asshole, and as Rolling Stone said:

In true Eminem fashion, he proudly steps into shoes that fit and makes listeners aware that hes aware of his self-destructive self, while disturbingly feeds off it.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Came to the world at a time when it was in need of a villain
An asshole, that role I think I succeeded fulfillin'
But don't think I ever stopped
To think that I was speakin' to children
Everything was happenin' so fast
It was like I blinked—sold three million
Then it all went blank, all I remember is feelin' ridiculous
‘Cause I was gettin' sick of this feelin'
Like I'm always under attack, man
I could have stacked my shit list to the ceilin'
Women dishin' but really thinkin': "If anyone ever talks to one of my little girls like this I would kill him."
Guess I'm a little bit of a hypocrite when I'm rippin' shit
But since when did this many people ever give a shit
What I had to say? It's just my opinion
If it contradicts how I'm livin', put a dick in your rear end
That's why every time you mentioned a lyric
I thanked you for it, for drawin' more attention toward it
‘Cause it gave me an enormous platform
I'm flattered you thought I was that important
But you can't ignore the fact that I fought for the respect
And battled for it, mad awards, had GLAAD annoyed
Atta-boy, they told me to slow down, I'd just zone out
Good luck tryin' to convince a blonde
It's like tellin' Gwen Stefani she sold out
‘Cause I was tryna leave no doubt
In anyone's mind, one day I'd go down in history
Think they know now because everybody knows
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Skylar Grey]
Everybody knows
That you're just an asshole
Everywhere that you go
People wanna go home, everyone knows
Everybody knows
So don't pretend to be nice
There's no place you can hide
You are just an asshole
Everyone knows, everyone knows

[Interlude: Eminem]
Thanks for the support, asshole! *scratch*
Thanks for the support, asshole!

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Quit actin' salty! I was countin' on you to count me out
Ask Asher Roth when he roundabout
Dissed me to shout me out
Thought I was history, well goddamn, honky
That compliment's like backhandin' a donkey
Good way to get your ass socked in the mouth
Nah, I'm off him
But what the fuck's all this trash-talkin' about?
The fight was fixed, I'm back and you can't stop me
You knocked me down, I went down for the count
I fell, but the fans caught me, and now
You're gonna have to beat the fuckin' pants off me
To take my belt—word to Pacquiao
Momma said, "There ain't nothin' else to talk about
Better go in that ring and knock 'em out
Or you better not come out!"
It's poetry in motion
Like Freddie Roach when he's quotin' Shakespeare
So what if insults are revoltin'?
Even Helen Keller knows life stinks
You think it's a joke 'til you're bullet-riddled
But you should give little shit what I think
This whole world is a mess
Gotta have a goddamn vest on your chest
And a Glock just to go watch Batman
Who needs to test a testicles? Not that man
Half of you don't got the guts, intestinal blockage
Rest of you got lap bands
Stuck to this motto 'fore they put bath salts
And all those water bottles in Colorado, so get lost, Waldo
My soul's escapin' through this asshole that is gapin'
A black hole and I'm swallowin' this track whole
Better pack toilet paper, but I'm takin' no crap, ho
Here I go down the Bat Pole
And I'm changin' back into that old maniac
In fact, there they go tryna dip out the back door retreatin'
‘Cause everybody knows
[Chorus: Skylar Grey]
Everybody knows
That you're just an asshole
Everywhere that you go
People wanna go home, everyone knows
Everybody knows
So don't pretend to be nice
There's no place you can hide
You are just an asshole
Everyone knows, everyone knows

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Holy mackerel! I'm the biggest jerk on the planet Earth
I smacked a girl off the mechanical bull at a tractor pull
For thinkin' we had some magnetic pull
Then screamed, "ICP in this bitch! How do fuckin' magnets work?"
‘Cause you're attractive, but we ain't attractable
Hate to be dramatical, but I'm not romantical
I'm makin' up words so you can understandable, it's tragical
Thinkin' some magical shit's gonna happen, that ain't practical
You crackin' a joke, it's laughable
‘Cause me and love's like a bad combination
I keep them feelings locked in a vault
So it's safe to say I'm uncrackable
My heart is truly guarded, full body armor
Bitch, you just need a helmet
‘Cause if you think you're special, you're retarded
Thinkin' you're one of a kind like you got some platinum vagina
You're a train wreck, I got a one-track mind
Shorty, you're fine, but you sort of remind me of a 49er
‘Cause you been a gold digger since you was a minor
Been tryna hunt me down like a dog
‘Cause you're on my ass but you can't get a cent
‘Cause all of my spare time is spent
On my nose in this binder, so don't bother tryin'
Only women that I love are my daughters
But sometimes I rhyme and it sounds like I forget I'm a father
And I push it farther
So, Father, forgive me if I forget to draw the line
It's apparent I shouldn't have been a parent
I'll never grow up, so to hell with your parents
And motherfuck father time
It ain't never gonna stop, a pessimist
Who transformed to an optimist in his prime
So even if I'm half-dead, I'm half-alive
Poured my half-empty glass in a cup
Now my cup has runneth over
And I'm 'bout to set it on you like a mothafuckin' coaster
I’m goin' back to what got me here
Yeah, cocky, and can’t knock bein' rude off, so fear not, my dear
And dry up your teardrops, I'm here
White America's mirror, so don't feel awkward or weird
If you stare at me and see yourself because you're one too
Shouldn't be a shock, because everybody knows
[Chorus: Skylar Grey]
Everybody knows
That you're just an asshole
Everywhere that you go
People wanna go home, everyone knows
Everybody knows
So don't pretend to be nice
There's no place you can hide
You are just an asshole
Everyone knows, everyone knows131Embed

Title: So Far...
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-so-far-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem rambles on about how far hes got, with the positives and negatives about it. Classic Em with references to many of his old songs.

Samples Joe Walshs Lifes Been Good:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BXWvKDSwvls
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
I own a mansion but live in a house
A king-size bed but I sleep on the couch
I'm Mr. Brightside, glass is half-full
But my tank's half empty, gasket just blew

[Verse 1: Eminem]
This always happens
Thirty minutes from home, gotta lay a log cabin
Only option I have's McDonalds's bathroom
In a public stall, droppin' a football
So every time someone walks in the john, I get maddened
"Shady, what up?" What? Come on, man, I'm crappin'
And you're askin' for my goddamn autograph on a napkin?
Oh, that's odd, I just happened to run out of tissue
Yeah, hand me that, on second thought I'd be glad then
"Thanks, dawg! Name's Todd, a big fan"
I wiped my ass with it, crumbled it up in a wad and threw it back and
Told him: "Todd, you're the shit," when's all of this crap end?
Can't pump my gas without causin' an accident
Pump my gas, cut my grass, I can't take out the fuckin' trash
Without someone passin' through my sub, harassin'
I'd count my blessings, but I suck at math
I'd rather wallow than bask sufferin' succotash
But the ant-acid, it gives my stomach gas
When I mix my corn with my fuckin' mashed
Potatoes, so what? Ho, kiss my country bumpkin ass
Missouri Southern roots, what the fuck is upper class?
Call lunch dinner, call dinner supper
Tupperware in the cupboard, plasticware up the ass
Stuck in the past—iPod, what the fuck is that?
B-Boy to the core, mule, I'm a stubborn ass
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Joe Walsh]
Maybe that's why I feel so strange
Got it all, but I still won't change
Maybe that's why I can't leave Detroit
It's the motivation that keeps me goin'
This is the inspiration I need
I could never turn my back on a city that made me
And (Life's been good to me so far)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
They call me classless, I heard that, I second and third that
Don't know what the fuck I'd be doin' if it weren't rap
Probably be a giant turd sack
But I blew, never turned back
Turned 40 and still sag—teenagers act more fuckin' mature, Jack
Fuck you gonna say to me? I'll leave on my own terms, asshole
I'm goin' berzerk, my nerves are bad
But I love the perks my work has
I get to meet famous people, look at her dag
Her nylons are ran, her skirt's snagged
And I heard she drag-races, *burp* swag
Tuck in my Hanes shirt tag
You're Danica Patrick (Yeah?) word, skag
We'd be the perfect match
'Cause you're a vacuum, I'm a dirtbag
My apologies, no disrespect to technology
But what the heck's all of these buttons?
You expect me to sit here and learn that?
Fuck I gotta do to hear this new song from Luda?
Be an expert at computers?
I'd rather be an Encyclopedia Britannica, hell with
PlayStation, I'm still on my first man on some Zelda
Nintendo, bitch! Run, jump, punch, stab, and I melt the
Mozzarella on my spaghetti
Put in on bread, make a sandwich with Welch's, and belch
They say this spray butter's bad for my health, but
I think this poor white trash from the trailer
Jed Clampett, Fred Sanford, and welfare
Mentality helps to keep me grounded
That's why I never take full advantage of wealth, I
Managed to dwell within these parameters
Still crammin' the shelves full of Hamburger Helper
I can't even help it, this is the hand I was dealt, a
Creature of habit, feel like I'm trapped in an animal shelter
With all these pet peeves, goddamn it, to hell, I
Can't stand all these kids with their camera cellphones
I can't go anywhere, I get so mad I could yell, the
Other day, someone got all elaborate
And stuck a head from a fuckin' dead cat in my mailbox
Went to Burger King—they spit on my onion rings
I think my karma's catchin' up with me
[Chorus: Eminem & Joe Walsh]
Maybe that's why I feel so strange
Got it all, but I still won't change
Maybe that's why I can't leave Detroit
It's the motivation that keeps me goin'
This is the inspiration I need
I could never turn my back on a city that made me
And (Life's been good to me so far)

[Bridge: Eminem]
Got friends on Facebook all over the world
Not sure what that means, they tell me it's good
So I'm artist of the decade, I even got a plaque
I'd hang it up, but the frame is all cracked

[Verse 3: Eminem]
I'm tryin' to be low-key, hopefully nobody notices me
In produce, hunched over, giant nosebleed
Ogre style as I mosey over to the frozen aisle
By the frozen yogurt this guy approached me
Embarrassed, I just did Comerica with Hova
The show's over, I'm hidin' in Kroger, buyin' groceries
He just had front-row seats
Told me to sign this poster, then insults me
"Wow! Up close didn't know you had crow's feet!"
I'm at a crossroads, lost, still shoppin' at Costco's
Sloppy Joe's, bulk waffles
Got caught pickin' my nose (Agh!)
Look over, see these two hot hoes
Finger still up one of my nostrils
Right next to 'em, stuck at the light, the fuckin' shit's
Takin' forever to change, it's stuck, these bitches are lovin' it
Rubbin' it in, chucklin', couldn't do nothin'
Play it off, "What you bumpin'?"
"Trunk Muzik, Yelawolf's better," fuckin' bitch!
They want me to flip at the label, but I won't succumb to it
The pressure, they want me to follow up with
Another one, after Recovery was so highly coveted
But what good is a fuckin' recovery if I fumble it?
'Cause I'ma drop the ball if I don't get a grip
Hoppin' out shrubbery on you sons of bitches
Wrong subdivision to fuck with, bitch
Quit snappin' fuckin' pictures of my kids
I love my city, but you pushed me to the limit—what a pity!
The shit I complain about
It's like there ain't a cloud in the sky and it's rainin' out
Kool-Aid stain on the couch, I'll never get it out
But bitch, I got an elevator in my house
Ants and a mouse—I'm livin' the dream!
[Chorus: Eminem & Joe Walsh]
Maybe that's why I feel so strange
Got it all, but I still won't change
Maybe that's why I can't leave Detroit
It's the motivation that keeps me goin'
This is the inspiration I need
I could never turn my back on a city that made me
And (Life's been good to me so far)

Title: Normal
Release Date: August 31, 2018, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-normal-lyrics
Song Description: Normal expresses Ems desire to be in a regular relationship, as opposed to the hazardous fictional relationships he has described on songs such as Love the Way You Lie, Tragic Endings, Love Game and Revenge.

Em also wants a different relationship than his well documented experience with dating Kim, for instance through Kim and Love You More. He apologized for slandering her in his songs and making their struggles public on Bad Husband from Revival.
Lyrics:

Part I

[Intro]
(Illa, Illa, Illa)
(Yeah-Yeah, yeah-yeah)
Yo (Yo), how do I keep
(Man, I don't know what’s up with these hoes, man)
Gettin' in relationships like this? (I'm just sayin’)
Maybe it says somethin' about me (Yeah, yup)
Should I look in the mirror?

[Chorus]
I just want you to be normal
Why can't you bitches be normal?
Always gotta be so extra
Why you always need a lecture?
My ex hates to talk, she's a texter
Even when I'm in bed layin' right next to her
Wants to get back together
Said not 'til she gets her act together

[Verse 1]
She thinks I'm bein’ mean and now
She starts to scream and shout
She’s about to let the demons out
She don't wanna see me with other females out
I tell the bitch to beat it, take the scenic route
She retaliates by tryin’ to leave the house
In an evening gown with her cleavage out
We've been down this road too many times for me to count
And all I can think is how—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
I just want you to be normal
Why can't you bitches be normal?
Always gotta be so extra
Like a fuckin' terrestrial
Guess it comes with the territory
My ex girl, she just declared war
Therefore, I better prepare for it
I guess bein’ weird's normal

[Verse 2]
And I don't know what's got a hold of me
Most notably I've been zonin' to Jodeci
I'm totally open, hopelessly devoted
So much so that I bet you she don't even know that she's
The first thing I think of when I wake up
And the last thing I think of 'fore I go to sleep
Sike, hope she don't notice me goin' through her purse
I know she cheats, so do I, I'm soulless, she's heartless
No wonder we're partners
Both got hundreds of charges
Domestic disputes but we've always
Swept it under the carpet
Even when 9-1-1 gets the call that
I slipped up and busted her jaw with
A Louisville Slugger 'cause alls it
Really does is make our love
For each other grow stronger
She won me over the second she tried to run me over
Told her I'd keep it a hun', we over
Kicked her out, called her back, now she's coming over
But why is she so wicked?
And how the fuck did I get so twisted
Up with someone so unlikable and shifty?
We're like nitrogen and hydrogen mixed with
Ignitable liquids, but I'm finally seeing
She's only mine for the time being
That's why I keep bringin' up that one time she
Tried to two-time me
And throw it up in her face 'til I dry heave
How could I be so naive?
Should I leave or turn this entire evening
To a motherfucking crime scene?
Part II

[Verse]
Maybe I'm just too ugly to compete with him
You weren't s'posed to agree, you fucking bitch!
'Specially when you're the one cheated first
Now the argument immediately becomes heated
You don't want me to flip, little conceited cunt
Eat a monkey dick wrapped in a stuffed pita fajita
Slut, treat it just like a drum, beat it
Complete it, and once you've succeeded, repeat it!
I love you but I hope you fuckin' die though
In our business your friends like to pry so
You've got 'em all under cover just like moles
Hopin' they'll come back with intel
But I'm the one who's thrown into the spiral
'Cause now the roles are reversed so here I go
Thinkin' I'm sly as I scroll through your iPhone
Who the fuck's Milo?
The guy at work who drives a hi-lo
I put a tracking device on your Chrysler
And follow you while you drive home
But like a cyclone, I just got my disguise blown
You recognized me and had Milo flip me off
Right out the passenger side window (*Beep-Beep*)
I hit a light pole, you skirt off
And then pull up at 5 a.m. in the drive in a stretched white limo
Stumble in the side door and hit me in the head with Milo's demo (Ow! Ah)
But like a drunk bum, what do I know?
Let's sleep on it like they did Revival
I told you "You're the apple of my eye," so shut your pie hole
[Outro]
Just wanna be normal
Why can't you be normal? (Yeah)
I just wanna be normal
Why can't you be normal?

Title: Phenomenal
Release Date: June 2, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-phenomenal-lyrics
Song Description: This is the first song released from the Southpaw Soundtrack, executive produced by Shady Records.

In similar fashion to Not Afraid & Guts Over Fear, Phenomenal is a motivational song that attempts to inspire and self-empower Marshalls fans.

The song represents protagonist Billy Hopes (Jake Gyllenhaal) struggle after his wifes death and loss of his daughter to child services. Billy The Great Hope then embarks on a mission alongside trainer Titus Tick Wills (Forest Whitaker) to reclaim his boxing titles and win back his daughter. The films narrative was inspired by Eminems struggle throughout his early career. Eminem was originally in the title role, but after putting the film on hold in 2012 to focus on his music, Jake Gyllenhaal joined on.

Screenwriter Kurt Sutter said:

I love that the title refers to Marshall being a lefty, which is to boxing what a white rapper is to hip hop; dangerous, unwanted, and completely unorthodox.
Lyrics:

[Hook]
I am phenomenal
With every ounce of my blood
With every breath in my lungs
Won't stop until I'm phe-no-menal
I am phenomenal
However long that it takes
I'll go to whatever lengths
It's gonna make me a monster though
I am phenomenal
But I'll never say, ‘Oh, it’s impossible’
Cause I'm born to be phenomenal

[Verse 1]
Unstoppable, unpoppable thought bubbles
Untoppable thoughts, fuckin' juggernaut that'll
Stomp you in a verse, obstacles I'm drawn to 'em
When the going got rough
Some of what I done fought through was the worst, little sissy
Who the fuck taught you how to persevere?
There ain't no situation that you ever had to respond to that's adverse
The messiest thing you've ever gone through was your purse
Yeah, I don't try like hell, then I might as well
Hang it up like a shelf, gotta keep growin' with it, evolve
Cause you can keep throwin' shit at the wall
But you're gonna find that nothing's gonna stick until you apply yourself
Time to slip in that zone 'til I find myself
Inside the realm of the unknown and boldly go
Into waters where nobody else has gone before
Or willing to go, uncharted, feeling is so
Bomb, I'm feelin' myself, I'm a giant
Sometimes I gotta remind myself that I am...
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Hook]
I am phenomenal
With every ounce of my blood
With every breath in my lungs
Won't stop until I'm phe-no-menal
I am phenomenal
However long that it takes
I'll go to whatever lengths
It's gonna make me a monster though
I am phenomenal
But I'll never say, ‘Oh, it’s impossible’
Cause I'm born to be phenomenal

[Verse 2]
Let me self-empower you
When you're down and they're tryin' to clown the fuck out of you
And you feel like you're runnin' out of fuel
I'll show you how to use doubt as fuel
Convert it to gunpowder too
Now what you do is put the match to the charcoal fluid
Put the spark to it like Martha Stewart barbecuing
Ah screw it, feel like you want to hit that wall then do it
Punch through it, just cock back, put your all into it
Now you gon' take that rage and make that what you wage
Never take back what you say
If you stay strapped in your brain, engaged in a steel cage match
Ready to scrap asap
Take your fists and just ball it
Show who's big and who's smallest you're Christopher Wallace
Now picture 'em all as plastic and foam
Lays flat, where you put your dinner plates at
And set it on 'em like a placemat
(I am phenomenal)
And I want you to say that
[Hook]
I am phenomenal
With every ounce of my blood
With every breath in my lungs
Won't stop until I'm phe-no-menal
I am phenomenal
However long that it takes
I'll go to whatever lengths
It's gonna make me a monster though
I am phenomenal
But I'll never say, ‘Oh, it’s impossible’
Cause I'm born to be phenomenal
[Bridge]
Oh, step into the unknown and find yourself
You’re floating freely, no emotion

[Verse 3]
Got a fuckin’ mouth with no shut-off valve
Can't even cut off power to it, but it's what allowed
Me to come up out from under the fuckin' ground
Cause I worked my butt off now
It's a subject that I don't know how to shut up about
Cause I stuck it out
Like a motherfuckin' tongue thats how
I responded when I got shoved around
You're gonna have non-believers
But when you're beyond belief, you probably shouldn't wonder how
Get it how you live
But are you prepared to give more than you get?
And put in twice what you get back from this shit
Though what you sacrifice barely is half, never give
Rap is my shiv
But it's like my shield at the same time I wield and my knife is will
Sometimes I feel just like B. Real from Cypress Hill
How I can just kill a cypher, survivor's guilt
I rhyme like life is still an uphill climb
Ready to face any challenge, waitin'
Can taste it, it's salivation, I'm wagin' retaliation
Look what I have built, reputation is validation
The only thing I'm capable of makin' is amazing
Only thing you're capable of makin' is a false statement
Or accusation... I am legendary status, in fact
That is the only way you'll ever be able to say
You're a legend is makin' an allegation
I write with the left, same hand I hold the mic with
As I fight to the death, 'til my last breath
Manage to prove who the best man is
Prevail at all costs, be the only ones left standin'
In the end, but I ain't gonna be the only one with the advantage
Of knowin' what it's like to be southpaw
Cause you can bet your ass you'll be left handed
Cause I am
[Hook]
I am phenomenal
With every ounce of my blood
With every breath in my lungs
Won't stop until I'm phe-no-menal
I am phenomenal
However long that it takes
I'll go to whatever lengths
It's gonna make me a monster though
I am phenomenal
But I'll never say, ‘Oh, it’s impossible’
Cause I'm born to be phenomenal463Embed

Title: Soldier
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-soldier-lyrics
Song Description: In the seventh song off The Eminem Show, Em details his dealings with the law because of his weapons charges, and boasts his fearless nature with themwhich is contradicted a song later.

This song is middle of the story started with The Kiss and concluding with Say Goodbye Hollywood.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
I'm a soldier
I'm a soldier (La-de-dah-dah, dah-dah, dah-dah)
I'm a soldier
I'm a soldier
Yo

[Verse 1]
Never was a thug, just infatuated with guns
Never was a gangsta 'til I graduated to one
And got the rep of a villain, for weapon concealin'
Took the image of a thug, kept shit appealin'
Willin' to stick out my neck for respect
If it meant life or death, never live to regret what I said
When you're me, people just wanna see if it's true
If it's you—what you say in your raps, what you do
So they feel it's part of your obligation to fulfill
When they see you on the streets, face to face, are you for real?
In confrontation, ain't no conversation, if you feel
You're in violation, any hesitation'll get you killed
If you feel it, kill it; if you conceal it, reveal it
Being reasonable'll leave you full of bullets, pull it
Squeeze it 'til it's empty; tempt me, push me, pussies
I need a good reason to give this trigger a good squeeze

[Chorus]
(I'm a soldier)
These shoulders hold up so much
They won't budge, I'll never fall or fold up
(I'm a soldier)
Even if my collarbones crush or crumble
I will never slip or stumble
(I'm a soldier)
These shoulders hold up so much
They won't budge, I'll never fall or fold up
(I'm a soldier)
Even if my collarbones crush or crumble
I will never stumble
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2]
I love pissin' you off, gets me off
Like my lawyers when the fuckin' judge lets me off
All you motherfuckers gotta do is set me off
I'll violate and all the motherfuckin' bets be off
I'm a lit fuse, anything I do, bitch, it's news
Pistol-whippin' motherfucking bouncers 6'2"
Who needs bullets? As soon as I pull it, you sweat bullets
An excellent method to get rid of the next bully
It's actually better 'cause instead of you murderin'
You can hurt 'em and come back again and kick dirt at 'em
It's like pourin' salt in the wounds, assault and get sued
You can smell the lawsuits soon as I waltz in the room
Everybody halts and stops, calls the cops
All you see is bitches comin' out their halter tops
Runnin' and duckin' out the Hot Rocks parking lot
You'll all get shot, whether it's your fault or not, 'cause I'm a—

[Chorus]
(I'm a soldier)
These shoulders hold up so much
They won't budge, I'll never fall or fold up
(I'm a soldier)
Even if my collarbones crush or crumble
I will never slip or stumble
(I'm a soldier)
These shoulders hold up so much
They won't budge, I'll never fall or fold up
(I'm a soldier)
Even if my collarbones crush or crumble
I will never stumble
[Verse 3]
I spit it slow so these kids know that I'm talkin' to 'em
Give it back to these damn critics and sock it to 'em
I'm like a thug with a little bit of Pac influence
I spew it, and look how I got you bitches rockin' to it
You motherfuckers could never do it like I could do it
Don't even try it, you'll look stupid, do not pursue it
Don't ever in your life try to knock the truest
I spit the illest shit ever been dropped in two-inch
So ticky-tock, listen as the sound ticks on the clock
Listen to the sound of Kim as she licks on a cock
Listen to the sound of me spillin' my heart through this pen
Motherfuckers know that I'll never be Marshall again
Full of controversy until I retire my jersey
'Til the fire inside dies and expires at thirty
And Lord, have mercy on any more of these rappers that verse me
And put a curse on authorities, in the face of adversity, I'm a—

[Chorus]
(I'm a soldier)
These shoulders hold up so much
They won't budge, I'll never fall or fold up
(I'm a soldier)
Even if my collarbones crush or crumble
I will never slip or stumble
(I'm a soldier)
These shoulders hold up so much
They won't budge, I'll never fall or fold up
(I'm a soldier)
Even if my collarbones crush or crumble
I will never stumble
[Outro]
Yo, left, yo, left, yo, left, right, left
Yo, left, yo, left, yo, left, right, left
Yo, left, yo, left, yo, left, right, left
Yo, left, yo, left, yo, left, right, left150Embed

Title: Offended
Release Date: December 15, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-offended-lyrics
Song Description: Reminiscing on a career plagued by controversy, Eminem doesnt feel remotely sorry for those he offended over the years. Likewise with the other songs on Revival, this song also takes aim at Donald Trump, the President of the United States.

The whole chorus is sung in the tone of the Nobody Likes Me (Guess Ill Go Eat Worms) childrens song, again insinuating that those who got offended need to grow up.

The end of the third verse sees Eminem take aim at the record books and beating his previous record of spitting 6.5 words per second in the fastest part of Rap God by spitting 6.71 words per second here. In the background of this part of the verse, Flight of the Bumblebee, a song known for its speed, begins to play in the background.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Eminem]
You claim if you get knocked by the cops
You'll give 'em not even a statement
Walk in the arraignment
Shoot the bailiff, karate kick the plaintiff
Gotti with the stainless
I'll just call it shoddy entertainment
If y'all was in the party gettin' faded
On molly, had the audience sedated
You wouldn't catch a body if it fainted
Probably let it fall and hit the pavement
But you'd be the first lobbyin' to claim it
Bitch, stop bein' a lame
Your hobby isn’t robbery and dismemberin' body limbs
Like you was Tommy Lynn Sells
And chainsawin' them in the basement
Hardly fits your job description, ain't nobody dippin'
Out the back of the club like, "Oh my God, he's trippin'!"
Only time you get the blade is
Probably with the dang lawn equipment, ain't it?
Wouldn't take a bobby pin and wave it
I need to stop bein' debated
You're still copyin', Xeroxing
I'm still coppin' a feel
Like Bill Cosby at will, poppin' a pill
Then spill Oxys in Jill's coffee
Then send her out to the hotel lobby
A lil' wobbly and still groggy
This blond fuck's reprehensible
Misconducts, never sensible
Kiss my butt, my set of principles
Is gone, but 'til I get the President to respond
My pen and pencil is a missile launcher
And Senator Mitch McConnell’s
Just as big of a bitch as Donald—
Shit's on, bruh! (Ha-ha)
Let me sing this shit soprano
While I do it pizzicato
Ivanka, stiff-arm her while I'm hittin' on Melania
And this song's for all ya
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Kent Jones]
'Cause nobody likes me, everybody hates me
They want me to go eat some worms (I hope you offended)
And drag my name through the mud, through the dirt
But I'ma make you eat your words (I hope you offended)
You can try to hold me down, but you better let me up
'Cause you're only gonna make things worse (I hope you offended)
'Cause I swear when I get up, I'm never gonna let up
'Til everybody eats my turds

[Verse 2: Eminem & Paul Rosenberg]
These drums and hard snares bring out the worst in me
Like Justin Ross Harris at a nursery
Goin' ham at candy yam
On nanny cam, I'm gettin' handies with the zanny Xannys
In the Caddy armrest, I'm imaginin' objects
So I'm battin' cobwebs from a daddy longleg
In Hamtramck
Got the panoramic camera
Xanax, a banana hammock and a Santa hat
I'm smellin' like a damn mechanic
With a chick that looks like Janet Jackson with a Spanish accent
Twice her age and I'm actin' half it (Ha-ha)
Grow up?
Nah, not that I know of, y'all
Basement just got a frickin' overhaul
Got a stripper pole installed
Started rollin' all through those Klonopins
Like a bowlin' ball
Like an overdose on twice the ratio of Propofol
And go through no withdrawal
While I get fellatio and give a facial to
An interracial blow-up doll of Rachel Dolezal
You're so appalled (Em…)
So's my manager
Bitch, I amateur, fuck a pro career
Coast is clear, but nowhere to go from here
And nobody's close so don't compare
They ain't nowhere near, I'm way over here
My competition can't see me—
'Cause I don't own a mirror!
But, Marshall, you are terrific
So smart and gifted
I'm so narcissistic, when I fart I sniff it
Do a fake dab to smell my armpits, whiff it
Your anxiety's throwin' gang signs
But I made strides with these rape lines
I'm cuttin' back on women hate crimes
Like Ray Rice when he FaceTimes
Bang, bang, bang, bang time
Dang knives're butcher than gay wives
You're gonna need sutures the same size
As the blade I push into caput'cha
When I pull 'em like (What?) sleigh rides
Gotta stab a bitch at least eight times
To make it on Dateline
I came to stake my claim like a canine
Waitin' in a buffet line
So, Kellyanne Conway
I'm a really bad hombre
Come play, belly dance on me
I've been makin' wedding plans all day
[Chorus: Eminem & Kent Jones]
'Cause nobody likes me, everybody hates me
They want me to go eat some worms (I hope you offended)
And drag my name through the mud, through the dirt
But I'ma make you eat your words (I hope you offended)
You can try to hold me down, but you better let me up
'Cause you're only gonna make things worse (I hope you offended)
'Cause I swear when I get up, I'm never gonna let up
'Til everybody eats my turds

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Eight-year-old with the wordplay
Girl, take this pole like a survey
Today wasn't my birthday
But I'm caked up like a dessert tray
So we're in shape
'Cause you're in a slurrin' state
I’m a 10, you’re an eight (Urinate)
Like what I do before, after, and durin' rape!
You wanna get into a pissin' contest
And find out who's better?
And be made a fool out of when I pull on 'em?
R. Kelly with a full bladder (R. Kelly with a full bladder)
Non-high school grad, I'm not a scholar
But I'm so cold when I'm droppin' knowledge
My degrees is the same as I got in college (Zero)
But nobody's hotter, you owe me my respect
I owe you nada like Haloti, partner
Blow me, told you I'm so dirty, homie, you can throw me
In some holy water, with some floaties on
And get the soap and try to get the Pope to hold me
While you hose me off and, nope, I won't be washed
You hope to God I don't explode
I gotta blow this spot up though, I got a lotta mo'
I won't put the sugar coating on it though
'Cause sometimes you can feel like your energy's expired
Rap's got you drained
Dead tired, zapped
You feel like a wet pile of crap
But look, man, like the feds buggin' my phone (Uh-huh)
I get why you're tapped
"But you gotta get your fire back
Catch fire, get upset and fire back!"
Is what I tell myself
When times get bad
'Cause sometimes I might get sad
But I take the same advice I had
And tell myself like I used to tell Hailie
When life's a drag
Told her to do like her dad:
Don't cry, get mad!
'Cause little baby powders
Belong in diaper bags
I'm hyper, by the time you see this side of me
I'm right in your ass (Sodomy!)
Foot up it, I stood up for the kid
Who had to put up with the bullies at his school (At his school)
You ain't had to have no money
Or go shoppin' just to cop a fuckin' attitude (Attitude)
Now my dough's amountin' to a mountain
That's rised too high to count it
Never asked to be rich, all I did was wish
I had a dime for every time that I was doubted
But then I think about it, then I'm enraged
'Cause I just figured out that if I was paid
For the time I spent to put the pen to the page
It'd be minimum wage (Minimum wage)
But it's embedded in my head I never hunted for the bread and butter
What I wanted was to be the one that they was scared of but
I'm never gonna get the credit for the sweat and blood
I put up in the pen, and when I'm dead I wonder
Will they put me on a pedestal or forget I was ever this incredible?
I guess I better go harder than ever 'cause
I'll never get another motherfuckin' opportunity again
To offend as many people with this, I can simply because I can
[Chorus: Eminem & Kent Jones]
'Cause nobody likes me, everybody hates me
They want me to go eat some worms (I hope you offended)
And drag my name through the mud, through the dirt
But I'ma make you eat your words (I hope you offended)
You can try to hold me down, but you better let me up
'Cause you're only gonna make things worse (I hope you offended)
'Cause I swear when I get up, I'm never gonna let up
'Til everybody eats my turds181Embed

Title: Brainless
Release Date: November 5, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-brainless-lyrics
Song Description: Em is at his most lyrical and sporadic as he brings back a vintage Slim Shady-type narrative. The track features, notably, a sample of Toccata and Fugue in D minor This five minute burst of horror rap finds the Detroit MC revisiting the haunting memories of being bullied in school. He then shoots to the present, where he boasts about how a single white MC has had so much influence on the Hip-Hop/Rap industry. Eminem previously discussed his problems with school bullies on The Slim Shady LP track, Brain Damage.

Legacy, a song from this album, also has a line that mentions a school bully.

I had a bad day at school so I aint talking
Some cocksucker shoved me into a fucking locker
Cause he said that I eyeballed him
Lyrics:

[Intro]
"Or Eminem has a full line of chainsaws
"Eminem, Eminem, Eminem, Eminem
Eminem, Eminem"
"Marshall Mathers, Eminem, the rapper Eminem"
"Who can say for sure?
Perhaps a frontal lobotomy would be the answer
If science could operate on this distorted brain
And put it to good use, society would reap a great benefit"

[Verse 1]
I walk around like a space cadet, place your bets
Who's likely to become a serial killer? Case of Tourettes
Fuck, fuck, fuck, can't take the stress
I make a mess as the day progresses
Angry and take it out on the neighbors' hedges
Like this is how I'll cut your face up, bitches, with these hedge-trimmin' scissors with razor edges
Imagination's dangerous, it's the only way to escape this mess
And make the best of this situation, I guess
'Cause I feel like a little bitch, this predicament's
Despicable, I'm sick of just gettin' pushed, it's ridiculous
I look like a frickin' wuss, a pussy
This kid just took my stick of licorice
And threw my sticker books in a picker bush
I wanna kick his tush, but I was six and shook
This fucker was twelve and was six foot, with a vicious hook
He hit me, I fell, I got back up, all I did was book
Now there's usin' your head, momma always said
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
"If you had a brain, you'd be dangerous
A brain, you'd be dangerous" (I'ma prove you wrong)
Momma, I'ma grow one day to be famous
And I'ma be a pain in the anus (I'ma be the bomb)
I'ma use my head as a weapon
Find a way to escape this insaneness (Momma always said)
"Son, if you had a brain, you'd be dangerous"
Guess it pays to be brainless

[Verse 2]
Fast forward some years later, a teenager; this is fun, sweet
I just got jumped twice in one week, it's complete
It's usually once a month, this is some feat I've accomplished
They've stomped me into the mud, gee
For what reason you stumped me?
But how do you get the shit beat out of you, beat down
And be upbeat when you don't have nothing?
No valid shot at life, chance to make it or succeed
'Cause you're doomed from the start
It's like you grew up on Jump Street, from jump street
But if I could just get my head out my ass
I could accomplish any task, practicin' trash-talkin' in a trance
Locked in my room, yeah, but I got some plans, momma
These damn rhymes are fallin' out of my pants pocket, I can't stop it!
And I'm startin' to blend in more, in school this shit helps for sure
I'm gettin' more self-assured than I've ever been before
Plus no one picks on me anymore
I done put a stop to that, threw my first punch, end of story
Still, in my skull’s a vacant empty void, been usin' it more as a bin for storage
Take some inventory: in this gourd, there's a Ford engine, door
Hinge, syringe, an orange, an extension cord, and a ninja sword
Not to mention four linchpins, an astringent stored
Ironin' board, a bench, a wrench, a ore winch, an attention whore
Everything but a brain, but dome's off the fuckin' chain
Like an independent store, something's wrong with my head
Just think if I had a brain in it, thank God that I don't
'Cause I'd probably be Dahmer, 'cause Momma always said
[Chorus]
"If you had a brain, you'd be dangerous
A brain, you'd be dangerous" (I'ma prove you wrong)
Momma, I'ma grow one day to be famous
And I'ma be a pain in the anus (I'ma be the bomb)
I'ma use my head as a weapon
Find a way to escape this insaneness (Momma always said)
"Son, if you had a brain, you'd be dangerous"
Guess it pays to be brainless

[Bridge]
Now my mom goes wahm-wahm-wahm
'Cause I'm not that smart, but I'm not dumb
I was on the bottom of the pile, gettin' stomped
But somehow I came out on top

[Verse 3]
I told you one day, I said they'd have that red carpet rolled out, yo
I'm nice, y'all, fuck it, I'm out cold, now everywhere I go
They scream out, "Go!", I'm 'bout to clean house, yo
I'm Lysol, now I'm just household
Outsold the sell-outs, freak the hell out Middle America
Hear 'em yell out in terror, they were so scared, and those kids
Just about belted out whatever spouted
Or fell out my smart aleck mouth, it was so weird
Inappropriate? So be it, I don't see it
Maybe one day when the smoke clears, it won't be as
Motherfuckin' difficult, yeah
'Til then, hopefully you little homos get over your fears and phobias
It's okay to be scared straight, they said I provoke queers
'Til emotions evoke tears, my whole career's
A stroke of sheer genius, smoke and mirrors, tactical, practical jokes, yeah
You motherfuckin'— insert insult here
Who the fuck woulda thunk that one little ole MC'd
Be able to take the whole culture and reupholster it?
And boy, they did flock; can't believe this little hick locked
This hip-hop shit in his hip pocket, and still the shit got
That white-trash traffic in gridlock, shit hoppin' like six blocks
From a Kid Rock/Insane Clown Posse concert in mid-Oc-
-tober, and God forbid I see a wizard
And get a brain in my titanium cranium, y'all
'Cause I'll turn into the Unabomber, Momma always said—
[Chorus]
"If you had a brain, you'd be dangerous
A brain, you'd be dangerous" (I'ma prove you wrong)
Momma, I'ma grow one day to be famous
And I'ma be a pain in the anus (I'ma be the bomb)
I'ma use my head as a weapon
Find a way to escape this insaneness (Momma always said)
"Son, if you had a brain, you'd be dangerous"
Guess it pays to be brainless

[Outro]
"Insaneness" ain't even a word, you stupid fuck!
Neither is "ain't"

Title: Square Dance
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-square-dance-lyrics
Song Description: This song has political roots while also serving as a diss towards Canibus.

In fact, the song may be a direct response to  Canibuss song Draft Me, in which Canibus threatens an unnamed rival and expresses a desire to fight in the war on terror, even including a quote by George Bush at the end of the song. In Square Dance, Eminem attacks Canibus and delivers an anti-draft, anti-war, anti-Bush message.

The beat sounds kind of similar to Bad Influence, an earlier Em song with a beat made by the Bass Brothers. Jeff Bass again shows up in the composer credits on Square Dance, but Em appears to have taken the lead on creating this Square Dance beat.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Eminem & Jeff Bass]

[Intro: Eminem]
People!—erra
It feels so good to be back
La-l-ladies and gent-g-gentleman-gentleman-an
Introdu-du-ducing the new-new and improved-proved you-you know who-who (Chka-err, chk-err, chka)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Never been the type to bend or budge
The wrong button to push, no friend of Bush
I'm the centerpiece, you're a Maltese
I'm a pitbull off his leash, all this peace talk can cease
All these people I had to leave in limbo
I'm back now, I've come to release this info
I'll be brief, and let me just keep shit simple
Canibitch don't want no beef with Slim, no
Not even on my radar
So won't you please jump off my dick, lay off and stay off?
And follow me as I put these crayons to chaos
From séance to séance, aw-a-aw-a-a-aw-a-aw
[Chorus: Eminem]
Come on now! Let's all get on down (Let's dance)
Do-si-do now! We gon' have a good ol' round (Let's sing)
Don't be scared, ‘cause there ain't nothin' to worry 'bout (Join hands)
Let your hair down and square dance with me (Be free)
Come on now! Let's all get on down! (Let's chill)
Do-si-do now! We gon' have a good ol' round (Let's live)
Don't be scared, ‘cause there ain't nothin' to worry 'bout (And dance)
Let your hair down and square dance with me! (With me)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
Yeah, let your hair down to the track, yeah, kick on back (Boo!)
The boogie monster of rap, yeah, the man's back
With a plan to ambush this Bush administration
Mush the Senate's face and push this generation
Of kids to stand and fight for the right to say somethin'
You might not like, this white hot light
That I'm under, no wonder I look so sunburnt
Oh no, I won't leave no stone unturned
Oh no, I won't leave, won't go nowhere
Do-si-do, oh, yo, ho, hello there!
Oh yeah, don't think I won't go there
Go to Beirut and do a show there (Haha!)
Yeah, you laugh 'til your mothafuckin' ass gets drafted
While you're at band-camp thinkin' that crap can't happen
'Til you fuck around, get an Anthrax napkin
Inside a package, wrapped in Saran Wrap wrappin'
Open the plastic and then you stand back, gaspin'
Fuckin' assassins hijackin' Amtraks, crashin'
All this terror, America demands action
Next thing you know, you've got Uncle Sam's ass askin'
To join the army or what you'll do for their Navy
You just a baby gettin' recruited at 18
You're on a plane now, eatin' they food and their baked beans
I'm 28, they gon' take you 'fore they take me
Crazy insane or insane crazy?
When I say, "Hussein," you say, "Shady"
My views ain't changed, still inhumane, wait
Arraigned two days late, the date's today, hang me!
[Chorus: Eminem]
Come on now! Let's all get on down! (Let's dance)
Do-si-do now! We gon' have a good ol' round (Let's sing)
Don't be scared, ‘cause there ain't nothin' to worry 'bout (Join hands)
Let your hair down and square dance with me! (Be free)
Come on now! Let's all get on down! (Let's chill)
Do-si-do now! We gon' have a good ol' round (Let's live)
Don't be scared, ‘cause there ain't nothin' to worry 'bout (And dance)
Let your hair down and square dance with me! (With me)

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Nothin' moves me more than a groove that soothes me
Nothin' soothes me more than a groove that boosts me
Nothin' boosts me more or suits me beautifully
There's nothin' you can do to me, stab me, shoot at me! (Woo-hoo!)
Psychotic, hypnotic product, I got a the antibiotic
Ain't nobody hotter and so on and yada-yada
God, I talk a lot of hem-de-lay-la-la-la
Oochie-walla-walla, um-da-dah-da-dah-da, but you gotta-gotta
Keep movin', there's more music to make
Keep makin' new shit, produce hits to break
The monotony, what's gotten into me?
Drugs, rock and Hennessy, thug like I'm Pac, on my enemies
On your knees, got you under siege
Somebody you would give a lung to be
Hun-ga-ry like a fuckin' younger me
Fuck the fee, I can get you jumped for free
Yeah, buddy, laugh! It's funny, I have the money
To have you killed by somebody who has nothin'
I'm past bluffin', pass the K-Y
Let's get ready for some intense serious ass-fucking!
[Chorus: Eminem]
Come on now! Let's all get on down! (Let's dance)
Do-si-do now! We gon' have a good ol' round (Let's sing)
Don't be scared, ‘cause there ain't nothin' to worry 'bout (Join hands)
Let your hair down and square dance with me! (Be free)
Come on now! Let's all get on down! (Let's chill)
Do-si-do now! We gon' have a good ol' round (Let's live)
Don't be scared, ‘cause there ain't nothin' to worry 'bout (And dance)
Let your hair down and square dance with me! (With me)

[Outro: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
Dr. Dre wants to square dance with me
Nasty Nas wants to square dance with me,
X to the Z wants to square dance with me,
Busta Rhymes wants to square dance with me,
Canibitch won't square dance with me,
Fanabitch won't square dance with me
Canadabis don't want no parts of me
Dirty Dozen wants to square dance with you
Yeehaw! Wee!

Title: Brain Damage
Release Date: October 13, 1998, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-brain-damage-lyrics
Song Description: Slim Shady spins a grotesque and surreal tale (although inspired by real events) about his childhood and how he became so crazy.

The DeAngelo Bailey named in the song actually attempted to sue Eminem for $1 million, in 2003, claiming he slandered Baileys character and fabricated stories. The case ended up being dismissed by the judge, who wrote her own rap at the end of the ruling to explain her decision.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Doctor & Nurse]
Scalpel
Here
Sponge
Here
Wait, he's convulsing, he's convulsing
Ahh
We're gonna have to shock him
Oh my God, oh my God
We're gonna have to shock him
Oh my God

[Verse 1]
These are the results of a thousand electric volts
A neck with bolts
Nurse, we're losin' him, check the pulse
A kid who refused to respect adults
Wore spectacles with taped frames and a freckled nose
A corny-lookin' white boy, scrawny and always ornery
'Cause I was always sick of brawny bullies pickin' on me
And I might snap, one day just like that
I decided to strike back, and flatten every tire on the bike rack
My first day in Junior High, this kid said
"It's you and I, three o'clock sharp, this afternoon you die"
I looked at my watch, it was 1:20
"I already gave you my lunch money
What more do you want from me?"
He said, "Don't try to run from me, you'll just make it worse"
My palms were sweaty, and I started to shake at first
Somethin' told me, "Try to fake a stomach ache, it works"
I screamed, "Ow, my appendix feel like they could burst
Teacher, teacher, quick, I need a naked nurse"
"What's the matter?"
"I don't know, my leg, it hurts"
"Leg? I thought you said it was your tummy"
"Oh, I mean it is, but I also got a bum knee"
"Mr. Mathers, the fun and games are over
And just for that stunt, you're gonna get some extra homework"
"But don't you wanna give me after school detention?"
"Nah, that bully wants to beat your ass and I'ma let him"
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go, they keep playin' my song
Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go, they keep playin' my song
Brain damage

[Verse 2]
Way before my baby daughter Hailie
I was harassed daily by this fat kid named DeAngelo Bailey
An eighth grader who acted obnoxious, 'cause his father boxes
So every day he'd shove me in the lockers
One day he came in the bathroom while I was pissin'
And had me in the position to beat me into submission
He banged my head against the urinal 'til he broke my nose
Soaked my clothes in blood, grabbed me and choked my throat
I tried to plead and tell him we shouldn't beef
But he just wouldn't leave
He kept chokin' me and I couldn't breathe
He looked at me and said, "You gonna die, honky"
The principal walked in and started helpin' him stomp me
(What's going on in here?)
I made 'em think they beat me to death
Holdin' my breath for like five minutes before they finally left
Then I got up and ran to the janitor's storage booth
Kicked the door hinge loose and ripped out the four-inch screws
Grabbed some sharp objects, brooms and foreign tools
This is for every time you took my orange juice
Or stole my seat in the lunchroom and drank my chocolate milk
Every time you tipped my tray and it dropped and spilt
I'm gettin' you back, bully, now once and for good
I cocked the broomstick back and swung hard as I could
And beat him over the head with it 'til I broke the wood
Knocked him down, stood on his chest with one foot
Made it home later that same day
Started readin' a comic, and suddenly everything became gray
I couldn't even see what I was tryin' to read
I went deaf and my left ear started to bleed
My mother started screamin', "What are you on, drugs?!
Look at you, you're gettin' blood all over my rug" (I'm sorry)
She beat me over the head with the remote control
Opened a hole and my whole brain fell out of my skull
I picked it up and screamed, "Look, bitch, what have you done?"
"Oh my God, I'm sorry, son"
Shut up, you cunt
I said fuck it, took it and stuck it back up in my head
Then I sewed it shut and put a couple of screws in my neck
[Chorus]
Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go, they keep playin' my song
Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go, they keep playin' my song

[Outro]
Brain damage, it's brain damage
I got brain damage, it's brain damage
It's probably brain damage, it's brain damage
Brain damage, I got brain damage75Embed

Title: Under the Influence
Release Date: May 23, 2000, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-under-the-influence-lyrics
Song Description: A D12 collaboration on The Marshall Mathers LP. It describes the classic antics of the Dirty Dozen and foreshadows the sound of 2001 album Devils Night.

This track ironically follows Kim, possibly the most disturbing and graphic song of Eminems career. In comparison to the emotionally draining and heavy subject matter found in Kim, Under the Influence is light-hearted and relatively substance-less. However, the song serves the purpose of responding to critics of the harshness of Kim:

So you can suck my dick if you dont like my shit
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Hem-de-le-le-le-le-le-le, le-le, le-le
Hem-de-le-le-ne-miah-nuf-niah, ne-nish, ne-ne (Translation)

[Chorus: Eminem]
So you can suck my dick if you don't like my shit
'Cause I was high when I wrote this, so suck my dick
[Verse 1: Eminem & Swifty McVay]
Ha-ha, two pills I pop, 'til my pupils swell up like two pennies
I'm Clint Eastwood in his mid-twenties
A young-ass man with a trash can, strapped to the back
Of his ass, so the rats can't chew through his last pants
I'm like a mummy at night, fightin' with bright lightnin'
And frightened with five little white Vicodin pills bitin' him
I'm like a fuckin' wasp in the hospital, lost
Stingin' the fuck outta everything, I come across in the halls
I light a candle and place it up on the mantel
Grab a knife at the blade and stab you with the fuckin' handle
So when you find yourself wrapped up in the blinds, hurtin'
(Bitch, it's too late)
'Cause once you're hung from the drapes, it's curtains

[Verse 2: Swifty McVay]
I'm an instigator, .380 slug penetrator
Degradin', creatin' murders to kill haters
Accused for every crime known through the equator
They knew I did it for havin' blood on my 'gators
My weed'll hit your chest like a double barrel gauge and
I'm a black grenade that'll blow up in yo' face
With a fifth in me, when I guzzle Remy, I do shit on purpose
You never hear me say, “Forgive me”
I'm snatchin' every penny, it gotta be that way, nigga, face it
That weed I sold to you, Brigade laced it
You hidin', I make the President get a facelift
Niggas just afraid, handin' me they bracelets
Chillin' in the lab wasted, I'm the type
That'll drink Kahlua and gin, throw up on the mic
Your life is ruined, you get socked right on sight
And even at the Million Man March, we gon' fight
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
So you can suck my dick if you don't like my shit
‘Cause I was high when I wrote this, so suck my dick
‘Cause I don't give a fuck if you don't like my shit
‘Cause I was high when I wrote this, so suck my dick

[Verse 3: Bizarre]
I'm a compulsive liar, settin' my preacher on fire
Slashin' your tires, flyin' down Fenkell and Meyers
Plates expired, soon as I'm hired, I'm fired
Jackin' my dick off in a bed of barbed wire
(Hey, is Bizarre performin'?) Bitch, didn't you read the flyer?
The special invited guest will be Richard Pryor
(Aren't you a male dancer?) No, bitch, I'm retired
Fuckin' your bitch in the ass with a tire iron
I'm ripped, I'm on an acid trip
My DJ's in a coma for lettin' the record skip
Lettin' the record skip, lettin' the record skip (Damn)
I'm fuckin' anything when I'm snortin'
It's gonna cost three-hundred dollars to get my pitbull an abortion
Some bitch asked for my autograph
I called her a whore, spit beer in her face and laughed
I drop bombs, like I was in Vietnam
All bitches is hoes, even my stinkin'-ass mom
[Verse 4: Proof]
Ayo, flashback, two feets, two deep up in that ass crack
Weed laced with somethin'–nigga, pass that!
In Amsterdam we only hang out with hash rats
At a ”Stop the Violence” rally, I blast gats
BMI on publishin'; get yo' ass capped
The Kuniva, divide up yo' cash stack
Run yo' motherfuckin' pockets, ASAP
I don't need a platinum chain, bitch, I snatched Shaq's
Born loser, half thief and half black
Bring your boys and your guns and get laughed at
Bitch smacker, rich rappers get they Jag jacked
And found chopped up in a trash bag
[Verse 5: Kuniva]
We stranglin' rappers, until the point they can't yell
'Cause they crew is full of fags and sweeter than bake sales
Reckless, come from behind and snatch your necklace
Gruesome and causin' more violence than nine hoodlums
I grapple your Adam's apple, until it crackle
Run right past you, turn around, grab you, and stab you
Get executed 'cause I'm a Luni, I got a Yukmouth
And it's polluted; I cock it back, then shoot it
I love snatchin' up players, thugs and young ballers
Shoot up the household, even the young toddlers
Brigade barricade to bring the noise
While the bullets break your bones up like Christmas toys
If I go solo, I'm doin' a song with Bolo
A big Chinese nigga screamin', “Kuniva, yo, yo!”
I leave ya face leakin', run up in church
And smack the preacher while he's preachin'
Take a swing at the deacon

[Verse 6: Kon Artis & Eminem]
I used to tell cats that I sold weed and weight
I was straight, 'til I got caught sellin' them shake
I'm ignorant with the intent to snatch your rent
I got kicked out of summer camp (Uh!) for havin' sex in my tent
With the superintendent's daughter, my brain's out of order
I've been a Kon Artis, since I was swimmin' in water
In cahoots with this nigga named Carlisle Von
Who got fired from UPS for tryin' to send you a bomb
(Special delivery) I sign to a local label for fun
Say, "I got cancer", get dropped, take the advancement, and run
Drive-by you in the rain while you carry your son
Call your house and hang up on you for not givin' me none
Born straight up out a pussy but a son of a gun
Got a reputation for havin' niggas runnin' they funds
Used to be the type of nigga that was foldin' some ones
'Til I met your fat mama, now I'm rollin' in dough
[Chorus: Eminem]
So you can suck my dick if you don't like my shit
'Cause I was high when I wrote this, so suck my dick
'Cause I don't give a fuck if you don't like my shit
'Cause I was high when I wrote this, so suck my dick

[Outro: Eminem]
Hah, ha-ha
Suck my motherfuckin' dick
D12, Dirty-motherfuckin'-Dozen
Nasty like a stank slut bitch with thirty fuckin' husbands
Bizarre Kid, Swifty McVay, the Kon Artis
The Kuniva, Dirty Harry, ha-ha, and Slim Shady54Embed

Title: Leaving Heaven
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-leaving-heaven-lyrics
Song Description: On Leaving Heaven, Eminem reflects on his success and what turned him into the man he is today. Accompanied by a soulful chorus by Skylar Grey, Eminem raps of his extreme resilience after being thrown in the deep end by the cards life dealt him, over a triumphant beat with intense drums. He also talks about his father who abandoned him when Em was a toddler. His father passed away on June 26, 2019.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Yeah (I knew this day was coming)
Sometimes, you gotta come back down (It's all going to hell now, man)
Stoop to someone's level (Yeah)

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Five dozen flies buzzin' over your head
Call me the Grim Reaper, sleep is my cousin
You're dead to me now and I'ma be the last face you see
'Fore you die 'cause in (Yep)
My eye are tigers and I'm a survivor so I will rise up and (What?)
Be triumphant 'cause when I'm looking at my legacy (Leg, I see)
Bunch of dogs tryna dry hump it
Like Triumph The Puppet, so I'm like, "Fuck it"
Pile the carnage up 'til it's so high, it's touching the sky
Let 'em all line up and attack
Single filing up in the stack
Call 'em toy soldiers (Yeah)
'Cause they just wind up on their backs
Now the sky's nothing but black
But I am not coming back, I done told ya
I told the woke me to go to sleep
But still, they keep on provoking me
They're hoping to see me completely broken emotionally
But how in the fuck am I not supposed to be woke
When these fuckers just keep poking me? Now
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Skylar Grey]
I'm leaving Heaven
I'm leaving Heaven
Angels won't find me
Where I am going

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I've been down, kicked
Like around six thousand times since I was a kid
As a child, picked on, clowned, been
Countless times I've been outed
Gotta remind myself of it every now and then (Yeah)
So the route I went's self-empowerment
In a hole, taught myself how to get out of it
And balance it with talents, wit
'Cause life is like a penny (Life is like a penny)
'Cause it's only one percent
Who overcome the shit they've underwent
I went AWOL like what my back was up against
Don't tell me 'bout struggle, bitch, I lived it
I was five or six the first time I got my hind end kicked
Malcolm, Isaac, and Boogie jumped me and took my tricycle
And I don't know if I would call that white privilege, yeah
But I get it, how it feels to be judged by pigment
Besides getting it from both sides of the tracks
But I swore I'd get them back
Even if it meant selling my soul to get my revenge and (What?)
Thought of a scheme and it got me to thinking
If I can believe in myself, I could prolly achieve it
That's part of the reason I do all my talking with ink
And as long as I'm breathing, I vow to outsmart 'em and beat 'em
A God with a heart of a demon, go at 'em and I'ma get even
Like I'm in the Garden of Eden, I'm 'bout to go off of the deep end
This evil is calling, I'm already seething and
[Chorus: Skylar Grey]
I'm leaving Heaven
I'm leaving Heaven
Angels won't find me
Where I am going

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Okay, so while Macklemore was keeping his room nice and neat (Yeah)
I was getting my ass beat twice a week (What?)
Looking for a place for the night where I could sleep (Yeah)
Flippin' sofa cushions over just tryin' to see
If I could find some change and scrape up for a bite to eat
If Denaun and me find a couple dimes a piece
Twenty five cents each'd get us a bag of chips
We'd be glad to get that even if we had to split
We'd do backward flips, looking back at it
I think that would fit with the definition of not having shit
Couple that with the fact my mother was batshit
Pop was a sack of shit, yeah, he died, but I gave half a shit
Yeah, which brings me back to the dear ol' dad that I zero had
Since a year-old, forty-seven year-old scab
Just to hear them words, ear piercing
Like my earlobe stabbed with a needle for an earring
Should I feel upset? You were dead to me 'fore you died
Me? Tear no shed
Should I have made a mural at your funeral?
Had your coffin draped with a hero's flag?
Where the fuck you were at
When De'Angelo done hurt me real bad at the Rio Grande?
Never met your grandkids, fucking coward
Only guts you had was from your stomach fat
I couldn't see your ass goin' to Heaven
So I'm asking for a pass to go to Hell
So I can whip your fucking ass
I hate that I'll never get to say "I hate you" to your face
No coming back from where I'm going
Sky is dark, my soul is black, hand on the shovel
Dig with the blade of it then I step on the metal
Vendetta to settle, tell the Devil
[Chorus: Skylar Grey & Eminem]
I'm leaving Heaven (Yeah)
I'm leaving Heaven (You know, I should dig your motherfucking ass up)
Angels won't find me (Just to spit in your fucking face)
Where I am going (Holding my baby pictures up like you're proud of me)
I'm leaving Heaven (Fuck you, bitch)
I'm leaving Heaven (You know what? Maybe if I'da had you)
Angels won't find me (I wouldn't have went through half the shit I went through, so I blame you)
Where I am going (Or maybe I should say, "Thank you")
('Cause I wouldn't have been me, haha)

[Outro: Skylar Grey & Eminem]
So you better, you better run (Yeah)
You better, you better run (So I'ma let it go now, rest in peace)
You better, you better run (Cocksucker, haha)
You better, you better run (See you in Hell)

Title: My Dad’s Gone Crazy
Release Date: May 26, 2002, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-my-dads-gone-crazy-lyrics
Song Description: Eminem says that he let Hailie come to the studio with him one day, she said My dads gone crazy into the mic, and he decided to put it into one of his songs.
He was criticized for putting his young daughters voice into a song with such vulgar language, but in his defense, Hailie Jade Mathers was not present during the recording of the actual song, she merely provided inspiration.

Below is a video of Marshall explaining how the song came about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G_MCAFRYtW4
Lyrics:

[Intro: Steve King & Hailie Jade]
*Television static*
*Eminem begins to snort cocaine*
Hello, boys and girls! Today we're gonna talk about father and daughter relationships. Do you have a daddy? I'll bet you do!
*Hailie opens the door*
*Eminem snorts cocaine*
Who's your daddy?
Daddy, what are you doing?

[Intro: Eminem & Hailie Jade]
Haha
Okay then! Everybody, listen up
I'm goin' to hell
Who's comin' with me?
Somebody, please help him
I think my dad's gone crazy

[Verse 1: Eminem, Hailie Jade & Dr. Dre]
There's no mountain I can't climb
There's no tower too high, no plane that I can't learn how to fly
What do I gotta do to get through to you
To show you there ain't nothin' I can't take this chainsaw to?
(Rahnn) Fuckin' brains, brawn and brass balls
I cut 'em off and got 'em pickled and bronzed in a glass jar
Inside of a hall, with my framed autographed sunglasses
With Elton John's name on my drag wall
I'm out the closet, I've been lyin' my ass off
All this time, me and Dre been fuckin' with hats off
(Suck it, Marshall) So tell Laura and her husband to back off
'Fore I push this motherfuckin' button and blast off
And launch one of these Russians, and that's all
Blow every fuckin' thing except Afghanistan on the map off
When will it stop? When will I knock the crap off?
Hailie, tell 'em, baby! (My dad's lost it)
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Hailie Jade]
There's really nothin' else to say, I, I can't explain it
I think my dad's gone crazy
A little help from Hailie Jade, won't you tell 'em, baby
I think my dad's gone crazy
There's nothin' you could do or say that could ever change me
I think my dad's gone crazy
There's no one on Earth that can save me, not even Hailie
I think my dad's gone crazy (Crazy)

[Verse 2: Eminem & Hailie Jade]
It's like my mother always told me: "Rana rana rana ra-
-Na, rana rana rana rana rana and codeine and
Goddamn it, you little motherfucker
If you ain't got nothin' nice to say, then don't say nothin'"
Uh, fuck that shit, bitch
Eat a motherfuckin' dick, chew on a prick
And lick a million motherfuckin' cocks per second
I'd rather put out a motherfuckin' gospel record
I'd rather be a pussy-whipped bitch
Eat pussy and have pussy lips glued to my face
With a clit ring in my nose, than quit bringin' my flows
Quit givin' me my ammo; can't you see why I'm so mean?
If y'all leave me alone this wouldn't be my MO
I wouldn't have to go eeny-meeny-miny-moe
Catch a homo by his toe, man, I don't know no more
Am I the only fuckin' one who's normal anymore? (Dad)
[Chorus: Eminem & Hailie Jade]
There's really nothin' else to say, I, I can't explain it
I think my dad's gone crazy
A little help from Hailie Jade, won't you tell 'em, baby
I think my dad's gone crazy
There's nothin' you could do or say that could ever change me
I think my dad's gone crazy
There's no one on Earth that can save me, not even Hailie
I think my dad's gone crazy (Crazy)

[Verse 3: Eminem]
My songs can make you cry, take you by surprise
At the same time, can make you dry your eyes
With the same rhyme, see, what you're seein'
Is a genius at work, which to me isn't work
So it's easy to misinterpret it at first, ‘cause when I speak
It's tongue-in-cheek, I'd yank my fuckin' teeth
Before I'd ever bite my tongue, I'd slice my gums
Get struck by fuckin' lightning twice at once
And die and come back as Vanilla Ice's son
And walk around the rest of my life spit on
And kicked and hit with shit every time I sung
Like R. Kelly as soon as "Bump and Grind" comes on
With more pain inside of my brain, than the eyes of a little girl
Inside of a plane aimed at the World Trade
Standin' on Ronnie's grave, screamin' at the sky
'Til clouds gather; it's Clyde Mathers and Bonnie Jade
And that's pretty much the gist of it
Parents are pissed, but the kids love it
Nine millimeter heaters stashed in two-seaters with meat cleavers
I don't blame you, I wouldn't let Hailie listen to me neither
[Chorus: Eminem & Hailie Jade]
There's really nothin' else to say, I, I can't explain it
I think my dad's gone crazy
A little help from Hailie Jade, won't you tell 'em, baby
I think my dad's gone crazy
There's nothin' you could do or say that could ever change me
I think my dad's gone crazy
There's no one on Earth that can save me, not even Hailie
I think my dad's gone crazy (Crazy)

[Outro: Eminem & Hailie Jade]
Crazy
Hahahaha hahahaha
You're funny, daddy77Embed

Title: 25 to Life
Release Date: June 18, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-25-to-life-lyrics
Song Description: Like Commons I Used To Love H.E.R. and 2Pacs Me and My Girlfriend, this song isnt what it seems at first glance.

It sounds like a kiss-off to a jealous, neglectful, emotionally abusive lover Eminem has recorded plenty of those but the ending reveals that its a kiss-off to a jealous, neglectful, emotionally abusive little art form called hip-hop.

But it sounds like Eminem is just complaining: surely he cant be serious about divorcing hip-hop once and for all (you just got back, Em!).
Lyrics:

[Produced by DJ Khalil & Danny Keyz]
[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues & Eminem]
Too late for the other side
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life
Too late for the other side
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life
Too late
(Yeah, I can't keep chasing you
I'm taking my life back)
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life

[Verse 1: Eminem]
I don't think, she understands the sacrifices that I've made
Maybe if this bitch had acted right, I woulda stayed
But I've already wasted over half my life, I woulda laid
Down and died for you, I no longer cry for you, no more pain
Bitch, you took me for granted
Took my heart and ran it straight into the planet
Into the dirt, I can no longer stand it
Now my respect, I demand it
I'ma take control of this relationship, command it
And I'ma be the boss of you now, goddamn it
And what I mean is that I will no longer let you control me
So, you better hear me out, this much you owe me
I gave up my life for you, totally devoted to you, I have stayed
Faithful all the way, this is how I fuckin' get repaid?
Look at how I dress, fuckin' baggy sweats, go to work a mess
Always in a rush to get back to you, I ain't heard you yet
Not even once say you appreciate me, I deserve respect
I've done my best to give you nothin' less than perfectness
And I know that if I end this, I'll no longer have nothin' left
But you keep treatin' me like a staircase, it's time to fuckin' step
And I won't be comin' back so don't hold your fuckin' breath
You know, what you've done, no need to go in-depth
I told you, “You'd be sorry, if I fuckin' left”, I laughed, while you wept
How's it feel now? Yeah, funny, ain't it? You neglected me
Did me a favor though, my spirit free you've set
But a special place for you in my heart I have kept
It's unfortunate, but it's—
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues & Eminem]
Too late for the other side
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life
(Yeah, can't take no more)
Too late for the other side
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life

[Verse 2: Eminem]
I feel, like when I bend over backwards for you, all you do is laugh
'Cause that ain't good enough
You expect me to fold myself in half, 'til I snap
Don't think I'm loyal, all I do is rap
How can I moonlight on the side? I have no life outside of that
Don't I give you enough of my time? You don't think so, do you?
Jealous when I spend time with the girls, why I'm married to you still?
Man, I don't know, but tonight I'm serving you with papers
I'm divorcing you – go marry someone else and make 'em famous!
And take away their freedom like you did to me
Treat 'em like you don't need 'em, and they ain't worthy of you
Feed 'em the same shit that you made me eat
I'm moving on, forget you
Oh, now I'm special? I ain't feel special, when I was with you
All I ever felt was this helplessness, imprisoned by a selfish bitch
Chew me up and spit me out, I fell for this
So many times, it's ridiculous
And still I stick with this, I'm sick of this
But in my sickness and addiction, you're addictive as they get
Evil as they come, vindictive as they make 'em
My friends keep askin' me, why I can't just walk away from
I'm addicted to the pain, the stress, the drama, I'm drawn to
Shit, I guess I'm a mess, cursed, and blessed, but this time I
Ain't changin' my mind, I'm climbin' out this abyss
You're screamin', as I walk out that I'll be missed
But when you spoke of people who meant the most to you, you left me off your list
Fuck you, hip hop! I'm leavin' you, my life sentence is served, bitch
And it's just—
[Chorus: Liz Rodrigues & Eminem]
Too late for the other side
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life
(I'm gone, man)
Too late for the other side
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life
Too late
Caught in a chase, twenty-five to life114Embed

Title: My Darling
Release Date: May 19, 2009, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-my-darling-lyrics
Song Description: My Darling captures Marshalls Eminem and Slim Shady characters at war, representative of the workings of the angels and demons within Eminems subconscious.

Whether the opposing voice is representative of something much more malevolent has been judged as being unlikely by the online consensus but remains oblique.

The outcome of the battle remains unrelenting and continual and illustrates a point where Eminem believed true extradition of his demons wouldnt be possible during his lifetime.

Notably, this song was initially only accessible by visiting Eminems official website with the Relapse CD in your computers disk drive.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Yeah, look

[Verse 1: Eminem]
If I were to rap about the crap that's out
That's the route you probably want me to take
‘Cause you're just dyin' to know what I think
And my take on some other rappers
If I was to say somethin' about Paul Wall
You'd probably crap in your pants, ‘cause I'm white and he's white
So he's like my competition, I mean, right?
Nope! Paul Wall is dope, and so is Bubba
So bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-but, I don't compete with nobody
I just go hard, do the rope-a-dope Ali shuffle
And dance around my opponents, do donuts
Sometimes I play possum, like I'm asleep, it's awesome
I'm like a sleepin' giant, and when I awake I'm like Dre
I just jump from outta nowhere and bite prey
And sink my teeth in 'em, and fill 'em
Full of poison, and make a noise like a snake before I kill 'em
And let 'em know that I just don't feel 'em
And smack 'em with the backward E, the Eminem emblem
I was taught if you gonna murder somebody you should face him
Tell him why, look him dead in the eye, then waste him
And the dark shall emerge from the fiery depths of hell
Then swallow the shell, all the hollow who dwell
In the shadows of all who are willing to sell their souls
For this rap game and it g-g-goes
One-two-three, chk-chk, one-two-three
Chk-chk, one-two-three, that ain't the hook, now follow me
There's nothing else for me to say, my public adores me
Everybody bores me, they're just so corny
So at night before I sleep, I look in the mirror
The mirror grows lips and it whispers: "Come nearer"
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
My darling, I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you, no one can, you're my darling
‘Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body
I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you, no one can, you're my darling
‘Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body

[Verse 2: Eminem]
"Shady, I know you're in there somewhere, come here
Talk to me, sit! Here, pull up a chair
Why don't you cut your hair?
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Dye it back, come on, try it"
Ahh, no! I told you, leave me the fuck alone, will you?
"But I'm here to rebuild you," — but I already killed you
"But Shady, we were meant for each other
Think about your mother," — yeah, so what of her?
"You think about what she did to you and your little brother
All them foster homes," — fuck you, motherfucker!
I had you beat! — "No, I was playin' possum
Remember? I let you watch your little girls blossom
I gave you enough time, your soul's mine
I'm taking it back," — you fuckin' bitch, why?!
"Because I love you, look a little closer
Isn't that us on that poster? Ha-ha-ha-ha"
[Chorus: Eminem]
My darling, I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you, no one can, you're my darling
'Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body
I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you, no one can, you're my darling
‘Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body

[Verse 3: Eminem & Dr. Dre]
"Shady, listen! (Shady!) You hear that?
They're screaming for you, I can bring your career back!"
But I don't want it back — "Yes, you do," — no, I don't
"Yes, you do! You're gonna regret it later," — no, I won't
"I'ma get Dre on the phone, I'll just call the Doctor"
Go ahead, I already talked to Dre yesterday
"Well, I got him on the phone right now!"
(Slim!) You're lying! (Yo, Slim!) How, why now?
What up, Dre? (Check this out, Slim, I gotta talk to you
I don't know, it just seems like ever since you got off your
Drugs you became a lot softer)
But Dre, all Shady is, is a bottle of hair bleach and vodka
(Well, just think about it, Slim, I'm here
Just hit me back and let me know what's up) — fuck this mirror!
"I'm not in the mirror, I'm inside you, let me guide you"
Fuck you! Die, you son of a bitch!
"Put the gun down!" — bye-bye! Boom!
Okay, I'm still alive, — "So am I too!
You can't kill a spirit even if you tried to
Ha-ha, you sold your soul to me, need I remind you?
You remember that night you
Prayed to God you'd give anything to get a record deal? Well, Dre signed you
This is what you wanted your whole life, Marshall, right? Ooh
Look at this house, look at these cars: they're so nice, woo!
Oh, but you didn't know fame has a price too?
That you just now seeing the downside to
Lose your best friend from high school, your wife too
Ain't even sure if your kids like you
Come off tour, can't even sleep at night without NyQuil
Become a Valium addict, start a rehab cycle
But together we can break the cycle
Marshall…" — What?! — "No one's gonna love you like I do" *Chainsaw starting up*
[Chorus: Eminem]
My darling, I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you no one can, you're my darling
‘Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body
I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you no one can, you're my darling
‘Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body
(I said) I don't ever want you to leave me, my darling
You and me were meant to be together, my darling
And if I cannot have you no one can, you're my darling
‘Cause I possess your soul, your mind, your heart and your body (Your body, your body, your body, your body)

Title: Antichrist
Release Date: July 12, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-antichrist-lyrics
Song Description: In the 8th track of the album, Eminem continues the diabolical theme of Evil and Lucifer by now proclaiming himself as the titled Antichrist and emphasizing his role as a provocateur in the music industry.

The song takes aim at the current woke cultural climate and is filled with Shadys signature explicit descriptions, and mentions of various celebrity figures such as Kanye West, Jeffrey Epstein, and Diddy. He also alludes to his past controversies and his combative relationship with critics and societal expectations. Bizarre also joins Eminem on the track, delivering his own classic vulgar and disturbing verse reminiscent of D12 days.
Lyrics:

[Part I]

[Intro: Eminem & Traci Nelson, Eminem]
Marshall, he's the Antichrist
He will slice and—
The devil came to Michigan
Oh, shit
Fuck
Fuckin' PC police
Fuck

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Gen Z, here they come now (Now)
'Bout to unload rounds (Brrt)
Pronouns (Shit)
Got me like, "Woah now" (Woah)
Homie, let's slow down (Chill)
No need to get so wound (Man)
Ready to throw down (Yo)
If I mispronounce (Thee, them)
Whoops (Sorry), oh wow
Got heterosexuals crammin' 'em down our throats now (He, she, they, them)
Like I'm gettin' snow-plowed
My humor's too low-brow (Yup)
Yeah, so there's no doubt (Nope)
You 'bout to get grossed out (Ugh)
But fuck it though, somebody needs to come and hit the reset button
Back to 2003 'cause how did we get stuck in
This woke BS? I'm tryna make it regress, fuck 'em
And I don't regret nothin' that's 'bout to be said, so fuck it, we can keep headbuttin'
Still a grade-A prick, but the same way (What?)
Cobain put the gauge to his brain, I'm goin' out with a bang, ayy (Yeah)
Dang, Dre
Look what you made me do, maybe you the one they should blame, they
Say they wish that I wasn't so angry (Yeah)
Don't wanna see me goin' off the deep end like Ye, ayy (No, nah)
Rather see me do like Kim Kardashian, they say (Yeah)
Yeah, and find a way to get rid of all of this rage, ayy (Haha)
But if you wonder, "Why is Marsh considered the harshest spitter?" (Why?)
'Cause I can spit a bar like it's a
Cross between Nas and GZA, Biggie Smalls, and RZA
So hard, Megan Thee Stallion and Nicki Minaj'll scissor (Cut it out)
You're still the press's wet dream (Yeah)
Too many head shrinks (Oh)
My head thinks foul, I've said things when jesting
They should arrest me for my testes (Ah)
The biggest in the South, West, East, North and catch be (Ah)
Evidence swept clean
With extreme lengths and steps being took to suppress things (Why?)
Try not to get seen
With Ben Affleck, me, and Seth Green hangin' on to the left wing
Of Jeffrey Epstein's jet screamin', "Hey, don't forget me" (Haha)
Shady as Bill, takin' the pill and putting it in your soft drink (Ah)
Something's off and I don't know what the cause be (Yeah)
But it's obvi', this water I'm in is scalding
Ominous thoughts creep in my head and it's not me
They brainwashed me (Marshall, Marshall)
And that's all she wrote, yeah, that's why they call me
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem & Traci Nelson]
Marshall, he's the Antichrist
He will slice and dice
Men, women, and children (One more time, come on)
His name is Marshall, he's the Antichrist
He will slice and dice
Whores, men, women, and children (Yeah)

[Verse 2: Eminem]
Knock, knock (Who's there?), boo (Boo who?)
Hey, why you cryin', shorty? Ew, 'cause I boo'd you (Woah)
Well, bitch, I'm tryna get some head up in this Subaru
But you have no clue what you doin', do you?
You fall asleep or somethin'? Hello, yoo-hoo
Wake up, fake slut, I'm out of here, screw you
What, did you drop dead in my lap? You call that head?
I suck my dick better than you do, haha
Yeah, I'm sick like the terminally ill (What?)
But more like sick as in the term "mentally ill"
Antichrist, how come you can't be nice?
Look who's talkin', dog, like Brian from Family Guy (Huh)
But who else is as pitiless, actually witty and crass, hideous
Ghastly, and insidious as me, or spitting as nasty?
Next idiot ask me is getting his ass beat worse than Diddy did ****
But on the real, though (What?)
She probably ran out the room with his fuckin' dildo (Come here)
He try to field goal punt her, she said to chill (No)
Now put it back in my ass and get the steel toe (Ew, ah, the fuck? Yeah)
Got nightmares, goin' Freddy on me (Why?)
'Cause they steady haunt me (Yeah, oh)
Shady's bad to the core, but look at the bread he got me (Bread)
Complete lack of remorse, so they've come at me before, but they won't ever stop me
But fuck the back and the forth until I'm dead and rotting
Head is probably whacked and it's warped like Jack Kevork'
Performin' sexual acts with a corpse
If they don't like it, like a necrophiliac in the morgue (What?), fuck everybody (Haha, yeah)
I don't appeal to you, you was one of them children whose (What?)
Parents fed every meal to you on a platter and silver spoon
I am a product of what Farina and powdered milk'll do (What?)
To your drive when them rappers like Jada bring out the will in you (Woo)
'Cause now my shit slaps harder than Will'll do, word to Gorilla Glue (Why?)
I don't need sticky fingers to steal on you (Nah)
Lyrical killer who punish you, every syllable sonnin' you (Yeah)
Your hides, I tanned 'em like bicycles built for two
Stickin' a clip in the Uz' that I've been itchin' to use, lookin' like Nikolas Cruz
My trigger's happy, it's ticklish, true, Travis Bickle 'em too, we gettin' rude
This shit'll go sideways like you're tippin' a canoe, bitch, I'm sick as the flu (Bitch)
How the fuck are you gonna fit in my shoes? Look at my views, all the shit I've been through
So, sympathy, I don't have any for you, stickin' it to all you idiots who
Take my lyrics a little bit too literal, you can all suck on my dick and if you
Don't wanna get ripped, better get the fuck back, bitch, I'm here to do what Dre sent me to do (What?)
That's sinfully get to spitting this shit, devil in me and I do his bidding, his name is
[Chorus: Eminem & Traci Nelson]
Marshall, he's the Antichrist
He will slice and dice
Sluts, whores, men, women, and children (One more time, what's my name?)
His name is Marshall, he's the Antichrist
He will slice and dice
Skanks, sluts, whores, men, women, and children
[Outro: Bizarre]
You wanna dance with the devil, dance with the devil, dance with the devil
You wanna dance with the devil, dance with the devil, dance with the devil
You wanna—

[Part II]
[Intro: Bizarre]
(I ain't goin' nowhere)
It's about to get scary, Bizarre (I'm still here, ayy-ayy, ayy-ayy, ayy-ayy)
It's about to get dark

[Verse: Bizarre]
Guess who's back (Yeah), straight out the gutter (Me)
With a dirty rubber, plus my homeless mother (Fuck her)
Where Bruce Jenner at? I wanna fuck that ho (Where she is?)
Where is Megan Thee Stallion at? I wanna suck that toe (Mwah)
Twenty years in, shit, I'm past addiction (Uh-huh)
I'm at CVS, tryna find my past prescription
My dad didn't listen, I passed the mission
Fuckin' a tranny on IG Live, that was a bad decision (Haha, that was fucked up)
My rent due, my girl need an abortion (What you gon' do? What?)
Sell them Eminem Jordans (I did, haha)
All gas, butt-naked, all ass
Tryna get on Hailie Jade's podcast (Why not?)

Title: Rock Bottom
Release Date: February 23, 1999, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-rock-bottom-lyrics
Song Description: This track deals with the stress and anger brought about by poverty and the struggles of raising a little girl under those conditions.

Ems sources of depression were revealed in Rolling Stones 1999 article on him:

It didnt help that days before his daughters first birthday, Eminem got fired from his cooking job at Gilberts Lodge. That was the worst time ever, dog, he says. It was, like, five days before Christmas, which is Hailies birthday. I had, like, $40 to get her something. I wrote Rock Bottom right after that.

Thus, Rock Bottom was written during a depressed point in Eminems life, around December 20, 1996. Furthermore, we find out from the book Eminem: The Stories Behind Every Song by David Stubbs that Eminem actually overdosed on pills while recording this song in Autumn of 1997.

This is one of only two tracks on The Slim Shady LPthe other being If I Had"that is not from his Slim Shady persona perspective, but rather from Marshall Mathers himself.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Bass Brothers]

[Intro]
Ayo, this song is dedicated
To all the happy people
All the happy people who have real nice lives
And have no idea what it's like to be broke as fuck
[Verse 1]
I feel like I'm walkin' a tight rope without a circus net
Poppin' Percocet, I'm a nervous wreck
I deserve respect but I work a sweat for this worthless check
I'm 'bout to burst this TEC at somebody to reverse this debt
Minimum wage got my adrenaline caged
Full of venom and rage, 'specially when I'm engaged
And my daughter's down to her last diaper, it's got my ass hyper
I pray that God answers, maybe I'll ask nicer
Watchin' ballers while they flossin' in they Pathfinders
These overnight stars becomin' autograph-signers
We all long to blow up and leave the past behind us
Along with the small fries and average half-pinters
But player-haters turnin' bitch like they have vaginas
'Cause we see them dollar signs and let the cash blind us
Money'll brainwash you and leave yo' ass mindless
Them snakes slither in the grass, spineless
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
That's rock bottom, when this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's rock bottom, when you want somethin' bad enough to steal
That's rock bottom, when you feel like you've had it up to here
'Cause you mad enough to scream, but you sad enough to tear
That's rock bottom, when this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's rock bottom, when you want somethin' bad enough to steal
That's rock bottom, when you feel like you've had it up to here
'Cause you mad enough to scream, but you sad enough to tear
[Verse 2]
My life is full of empty promises and broken dreams
I'm hopin' things look up, but there ain't no job openings
I feel discouraged, hungry and malnourished
Livin' in this house with no furnace, unfurnished
And I'm sick of workin' dead-end jobs with lame pay
And I'm tired of bein' hired and fired the same day
But fuck it, if you know the rules to the game, play
'Cause when we die, we know we all goin' the same way
'Cause it's cool to be the player, but it sucks to be the fan
When all you need is bucks to be the man, plus a luxury sedan
Or comfortable and roomy in a 6
But they threw me in the mix with all these gloomy lunatics
Who walk around depressed, and smoke a pound of cess a day
And yesterday went by so quick, it seems like it was just today
My daughter wants to throw the ball, but I'm too stressed to play
Live half my life and throw the rest away
[Chorus]
That's rock bottom, when this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's rock bottom, when you want somethin' bad enough to steal
That's rock bottom, when you feel like you've had it up to here
'Cause you mad enough to scream, but you sad enough to tear
That's rock bottom, when this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's rock bottom, when you want somethin' bad enough to steal
That's rock bottom, when you feel like you've had it up to here
'Cause you mad enough to scream, but you sad enough to tear
[Verse 3]
There's people that love me and people that hate me (Yup)
But it's the evil that made me
This backstabbin', deceitful and shady (Mhm)
I want the money, the women, the fortune and fame
That means I end up burnin' in Hell, scorchin' in flame
That means I'm stealin' your checkbook and forgin' your name
This lifetime bliss for eternal torture and pain
'Cause right now, I feel like I've just hit the rock bottom
I've got problems, now everybody on my block's got 'em (Duh)
I'm screamin' like them two cops when 2Pac shot 'em
Holdin' two Glocks, hope your doors got new locks on 'em
My daughter's feet ain't got no shoes or socks on 'em
And them rings you wearin' look like they got a few rocks on 'em
And while you flaunt 'em
I could be takin' 'em to shops to pawn 'em
I got a couple of rings and a brand-new watch, you want 'em?
'Cause I ain't never went gold off one song
I'm runnin' up on someone's lawn with guns drawn
[Chorus]
That's rock bottom, when this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's rock bottom, when you want somethin' bad enough to steal
That's rock bottom, when you feel like you've had it up to here
'Cause you mad enough to scream, but you sad enough to tear
That's rock bottom, when this life makes you mad enough to kill
That's rock bottom, when you want somethin' bad enough to steal
That's rock bottom, when you feel like you've had it up to here
'Cause you mad enough to scream, but you sad enough to tear
That's rock bottom136Embed

Title: Those Kinda Nights
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-those-kinda-nights-lyrics
Song Description: On Those Kinda Nights Em again teams up with Ed Sheeran. The two artists have collaborated on Eds Remember the Name, alongside Ems close friend and frequent collaborator, 50 Cent, off of Eds No.6 Collaborations Project and Ems high-charting River off of Ems Revival.

Em takes the listener back to the classic Eminem era that started with The Slim Shady LP, revisiting the tropes and topics that introduced the world to Shady. In this storytelling track, Slim paints us a picture of a hormone-fueled and drug-induced tale of one eventful night.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Bizarre & Ed Sheeran]
Damn, girl, with your sexy ass, haha
Let me holla at you
D.A. got that dope
It's one of those kinda nights

[Verse 1: Eminem, Ed Sheeran & Bizarre]
Yes, this beat’s takin' me back to my D12 days
When we hit the club to go and hell-raise
Probably end up baggin' the cocktail waitress
And takin’ her straight back to the Motel-8
Yeah, Bizarre's tryna get a lap dance
Off a Xanax and Jack Dan' (Ayo)
Stripper walk by, I'm like "Goddamn"
She's like "That's harassment," I'm like "Yeah, and?" (Woo)
Holy Toledo, it's Miss Ohio
That’s the best ass I’ve seen in a while
We should be datin', she’s from Cleveland
But she's a bengal, this chick is catty
Is that a mini-skirt if it's a maxi?
That's the shortest thing for a dress since an addy (Since an addy)
She said "Fuck off" and threw her liquor at me
It’s one of those kinda nights
Then I said, I said

[Chorus: Ed Sheeran]
If you wanna go hard tonight
Well then, the smoke and the bottle are on me, ah
Slip into that red dress you like
When we arrive, we probably won't leave, ah
I love the way you move like that
When you push your body on mine, oh my
You wanna smoke, drink, dance until the sunrise
It's one of those kinda nights
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Verse 2: Eminem]
This beat keeps takin' me back like my ex does
Only 'cause how good the sex was
Hit up the next club, met Alexa
But she was so extra, called her et cetera
Had her like, "Oh my God
My whole iPod's filled with your songs, I mow my lawn to 'em"
I said, "Oh my God, you know my songs?
That's totally awesome, I'm Marshall, what's goin' on? Ah (Haha)
Seriously though, jokes aside, how you doin'? You straight?"
She said, "No, I'm bi"
She said, "Are you drunk?," I said, "No, I'm high
I'm checkin' out the chick," she said, "So am I"
"What's in the cup, let me see that
Girl, where the rest of that promethazine at?"
She said, "Cool, gotta run out to my Cadillac though
And I'll be like Fat Joe, and bring the lean back"
Then I said

[Chorus: Ed Sheeran]
If you wanna go hard tonight
Well then, the smoke and the bottle are on me, ah
Slip into that red dress you like
When we arrive, we probably won't leave, ah
I love the way you move like that
When you push your body on mine, oh my
You wanna smoke, drink, dance until the sunrise
It's one of those kinda—
[Verse 3: Eminem]
OMG
Like the gas in the tank, she's gettin' low on me
Said she wants to go with me
I said, "Go with you where?" She said, "Out"
I said, "I'm a candle, I'll go out if you blow on me"
Walk her out to the parkin' lot, here comes Da Brigade
Turn like a flip page, Swifty look shitfaced
Say peace to McVay and me and this chick take off like a sick day
Drivin' around, I said, "Let's pull over," she said, "No problemo"
Windows are dark tint, roll up the car windows
Monte Carlo in park, bumpin' Bizarre's demo
Gettin' head in the bucket, Marshmello
Yeah, I never in the club met a woman worth knowin'
But if you're ho'in
Opposites attract, I'm someone, you're a no one
I'm high and you're bi, I'm comin', you're goin'

[Chorus: Ed Sheeran]
If you wanna go hard tonight
Well then, the smoke and the bottle are on me, ah
Slip into that red dress you like
When we arrive, we probably won't leave, ah
I love the way you move like that
When you push your body on mine, oh my
You wanna smoke, drink, dance until the sunrise
It's one of those kinda nights65Embed

Title: Cold Wind Blows
Release Date: June 18, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-cold-wind-blows-lyrics
Song Description: In the opening track off Recovery, Eminem gets icy towards pussies, both the male kind and the female kind, settling the score with rivals.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
'Cause some things just don't change
It's better when they stay the same
Although the whole world knows your name
So on a biggest stage, they
Came to see you spit your game, ho-woah
But it shouldn't be difficult to explain
Just why you came back again
You hate the fame, love the game
Cold as ice, you remain
Fuck 'em all, tell 'em all, "Eat shit"
Here we go again
Oh (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-dum) (Yeah, yup, yeah)
Goddamn (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-du)
Is it that time again already? (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-dum)
Haha (Okay, okay) (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-du)
Y'all don't look too happy to see me (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-dum)
Fuck, man (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-du)
Don't everybody welcome me back at once (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum-du-dum)
Alright, fuck you all then (Dum, du-du-du-dum, dum)

[Verse 1]
You can get the dick, just call me the ballsack, I'm nuts
Michael Vick in this bitch, dawg, fall back, you mutts
Fuck your worms, you've never seen such a sick puppy
Fuck it, a sick duck, I want my duck sicked, mummy
And my nuts licked, gobble 'em up, trick, yummy
Bitch, you don't fuckin' think I know that you suck dick? Dummy
You'll get your butt kicked, fuck all that love shit, honey
Yeah, I laugh when I call you a slut, it's funny
Shorty, dance while I diss you to the beat, fuck the words
You don't listen to 'em anyway, yeah, struck a nerve, sucker
Mo'fucker, might as well let my lips pucker
Like Elton John 'cause I'm just a mean cocksucker
The shit is on 'cause you went and pissed me off
Now I'm shittin' and pissin' on everybody, give a fuck if it's right or wrong
So puff the Buddha, light a bong
But take a look at Mariah next time I inspire you to write a song
Come on
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
Oh, oh-oh-oh, oh-oh, oh
I'm as cold as the cold wind blows
When it snows and it's twenty below
Ask me why, man, I just don't know
Know-know-know, know-know, know
I'm as cold as the cold wind blows
Bl-bl-blows, blow-blow, blows, oh, oh-oh

[Verse 2]
Fuck it, I'm a loose cannon
Bruce Banner's back in the booth
Y'all are sittin' ducks, I'm the only goose standin'
I'll set the world on fire, piss on it, put it out
Stick my dick in a circle, but I'm not fuckin' around
Motherfucker, I'll show you pussy-footin'
I'll kick a bitch in the cunt 'til it makes a queef and sounds like a fuckin' whoopee cushion
Who the fuck is you pushin'?
You must've mistook me for some sissy soft punk lookin' for some nookie or bosom
Go ahead, fuckin' hater, push me
I told you ain't no fuckin' way to shush me
Call me a faggot 'cause I hate a pussy
Man the fuck up, sissy, Gs up
All you gardeners freeze up, put your hoes down
"Shady, ease up, man, chill," nah, I can't, goddamn it, rap is a landfill
Drop the anvil, these are shoes that you can't fill
Shit, the day that happens the world will stop spinnin'
And Michael J. Fox'll come to a standstill (Woo)
During an earthquake, urine in your face 'cause you're fake
Ow, what the fuck? That hurt, wait
Ow, what the fuck? I just got struck by lightnin'
Alright then, I quit, God, I give up
Call it evil that men do
Lord, forgive me for what my pen do
"This is for your sins, I cleanse you
You can repent, but I warn you, if you continue
To Hell, I send you"
And just then the wind blew, and I said—
[Chorus]
Oh, oh-oh-oh, oh-oh, oh
I'm as cold as the cold wind blows
When it snows and it's twenty below
Ask me why, man, I just don't know
Know-know-know, know-know, know
I'm as cold as the cold wind blows
Bl-bl-blows, blow-blow, blows, oh, oh-oh-oh, oh

[Verse 3]
How long will I be this way? Shady until my dyin' day
'Til I hang up the mic and it's time for me to say "So long"
'til then I'll drop the fuckin' bombs like I missed the pass when I went long
If you don't like it, you can kiss my ass in a lint thong
Now sing along, "Slut this, slut that," learn the words to the song
"Oh, bitches don't like that"
Homie, I'll be nicer to women when Aquaman drowns and the Human Torch starts swimmin'
Man, I'm a cold soul, I roll solo
So don't compare me to them other bums over there
It's like apples to oranges, peaches to plums, yeah
I'm bananas, pussy, cut off the grapes and grow a pair
But I swear, you try to diss me, I'll slaughter you
I put that on everything like everyone does with Auto-Tune
The last thing you want to do is have me spit out a rhyme, and say
"I was writing this, and I thought of you"
So—
[Chorus]
Oh, oh-oh-oh, oh-oh, oh
I'm as cold as the cold wind blows
When it snows and it's twenty below
Ask me why, man, I just don't know
Know-know-know, know-know, know
I'm as cold as the cold wind blows
Bl-bl-blows, blow-blow, blows, oh, oh-oh-oh, oh

[Outro]
I don't know, I don't know what caused—
I don't know what caused me to be this way
I don't know, I don't know
But I'll probably be this way 'til my dyin' day
I don't know why I'm so—, I'm so cold
Mean things I don't mean to say
I guess this is how you made me117Embed

Title: We Made You
Release Date: April 7, 2009, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-we-made-you-lyrics
Song Description: A love/hate letter to pop culture in the style of his 2000 smash hit single, The Real Slim Shady, We Made You provides comic relief from the serial killer theme of 2009s Relapse LP.

With the hook, Eminem is showing that popular celebrities arent any better than their fans. This gives him a reason to tear their reputations apart: they dont deserve to be admired too much.

We Made You follows Same Song & Dance on the album. With this sequence, Em could be implying that the sexual violence of alter-ego Slim Shady on the previous song fathered the rap icon that is Eminem.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
Guess who? D'you miss me?
Jessica Simpson, sing the chorus!

[Chorus: Charmagne Tripp & Eminem]
When you walked through the door (Woo!)
It was clear to me (Clear to me)
You’re the one they adore
Who they came to see (Who they came to see)
You’re a rock star (Baby) (Yeah)
Everybody wants you (Everybody wants you)
Player, who can really blame you? (Who can really blame you?)
We’re the ones who made you

[Verse 1: Eminem]
Ahem, back by popular demand
Now pop a little Zantac for antacid if you can
You're ready to tackle any task that is at hand?
How does it feel? Is it fantastic? Is it grand?
Well, look at all the massive masses in the stands
"Shady, man, no, don't massacre the fans!"
Damn, I think Kim Kardashian's a man
She stomped him, just ‘cause he asked to put his hands
On her massive gluteus maximus again
Squeeze it, then squish it, then pass it to a friend
Can he come back as nasty as he can?
Yes, he can, Ken, don't ask me this again
He does not mean to lesbian offend
But, Lindsay, please come back to seeing men
Samantha's a two; you're practically a ten
I know you want me, girl, in fact, I see you grin
Now come in, girl
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Charmagne Tripp & Eminem]
When you walked through the door (Woo!)
It was clear to me (Clear to me)
You’re the one they adore
Who they came to see (Who they came to see)
You’re a rock star (Baby)
Everybody wants you (Everybody wants you)
Player, who can really blame you? (Who can really blame you?)
We’re the ones who made you

[Verse 2: Eminem]
The enforcer, looking for more women to torture
Walk up to the cutest girl and charley-horse her
Sorry, Portia, but what's Ellen DeGeneres
Have that I don't? Are you telling me tenderness?
Well, I can be as gentle and as smooth as a gentleman
Give me my Ventolin inhaler and two Xenadrine
And I'll invite Sarah Palin out to dinner, then
Nail her, baby, say hello to my little friend!
Brit, forget K-Fed, let's cut off the middleman
Forget him or you're gonna end up in the hospital again
And this time it won't be for the Ritalin binge
Forget them other men, girl, pay them little attention
And little did I mention that Jennifer's in
Love with me, John Mayer, so sit on the bench
Man, I swear them other guys, you give 'em an inch
They take a mile; they got style, but it isn't Slim
[Chorus: Charmagne Tripp & Eminem]
When you walked through the door (Woo!)
It was clear to me (Clear to me)
You’re the one they adore
Who they came to see (Who they came to see)
You’re a rock star (Baby)
Everybody wants you (Everybody wants you)
Player, who can really blame you? (Who can really blame you?)
We’re the ones who made you

[Bridge: Eminem]
And that's why, my love
You'll never live without
I know you want me, girl
'Cause I can see you checking me out
And, baby, you know
You know you want me too
Don't try to deny it, baby
I'm the only one for you (*Fart*)

[Verse 3: Eminem]
Damn, girl, I'm beginning to sprout an Alfalfa
Why should I wash my filthy mouth out?
You think that's bad, you should hear the rest of my album
Never has there been such finesse and nostalgia
Man, Cash, I don't mean to mess with your gal, but
Jessica Alba put her breasts on my mouth (Blup!)
Wowzers! I just made a mess in my trousers
And they wonder why I keep dressing like Elvis
"Lord, help us, he's back in his pink ALF shirt
Looking like someone shrinked his outfit!"
I think he's 'bout to flip, Jessica
Rest assured Superman's here to rescue ya
Can you blame me? You're my Amy, I'm your Blake
Matter of fact, bake me a birthday cake
With a saw blade in it to make my jailbreak
Baby, I think you just met your soulmate
Now break it down, girl
[Chorus: Charmagne Tripp & Eminem]
When you walked through the door (Woo!)
It was clear to me (Clear to me)
You’re the one they adore
Who they came to see (Who they came to see)
You’re a rock star (Baby)
Everybody wants you (Everybody wants you)
Player, who can really blame you? (Who can really blame you?)
We’re the ones who made you

[Outro: Eminem]
So baby
Baby, get down, down, down
Baby, get down, down, down
Baby, get down, down, down
Baby, get down, get down
Baby, get down, down, down
Baby, get down, down, down
Baby, get down, down, down
Baby, get down, get down
Oh Amy! Rehab never looked so good!
I can't wait, I'm going back
Ha-ha, woo!
Dr. Dre! 2020!
Yeah!

Title: I Will
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-i-will-lyrics
Song Description: On I Will, Eminem reunites his Slaughterhouse comrades, KXNG Crooked, Royce da 5'9" and Joell Ortiz for a posse cut over a classic boom-bap beat. However, Slaughterhouse member Joe Budden is missing from the feature list for retirement reasons or perhaps due to his past issues with Em.

On the five-minute runtime, the rappers take an old-school approach to hip-hop, and the devils wish dictates the rappers' mindset.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Eminem]
And I don't think that I can stop it (Here it comes)
I do my best to try to block it (Redrum)
I've been sipping on like, vodka (Head's numb)
I'm blacking out, you better watch it (It's bedlam)

[Chorus: Eminem]
I thought I heard a voice in my head that said "Kill"
I had no other choice that was left except fill
My pencil full of poisonous lead, the devil
He wants me to murder this beat, so I will
He told me there are doubters who question my skill
They wanna put my style to the test, am I still
The best? They want the crown on my head, I said, "Chill
If you want me to murder this beat, then I will"

[Verse 1: Royce da 5'9"]
I'm a long way away from where you are in skill
Foreign wheels, my bitch wearin' four-inch heels
She on the orange pill
And she about to start taking off layers like orange peels
Sacha Baron Cohen, Ferrell, where am I going with this?
Oh yeah, I bar at will
And when you throw the iron in it, I'm all that still
The truth for real, I'm real true, call that trill
This is my house, this place is mine
Posted on any corner on any coast I'm on
You niggas need to leave that lean, Henny, and coke alone
Terror to the business, married to the strippers, T-Pain
Student of the game pre-Kane, you niggas Post Malone
Elite beatboxer minus the raps
Rollin' with at least three choppers, Ryan is that
I literally keep three shottas
I'm lyrically James Todd, Tariq Trotter minus the cap
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus: Eminem]
I thought I heard a voice in my head that said "Kill"
I had no other choice that was left except fill
My pencil full of poisonous lead, the devil
He wants me to murder this beat, so I will
He told me there are doubters who question my skill
They wanna put my style to the test, am I still
The best? They want the crown on my head, I said, "Chill
If you want me to murder this beat, then I will"

[Verse 2: KXNG Crooked]
Manslaughter goons under the moonlight
John Wilkes, that's who I'm in the booth like
Ayy, bruh, I go ham for dead presidents
And everything I record is over your head like a boom mic
Why would you irrelevant fucks want to rebel against us
Knowing your Smith & Wesson has never been clutched?
Knowing you never been rushed by the most ignorant niggas invented
Them niggas that'll send you to the dentist to get a whole row of elephant tusks
Your teeth gone like you been on some meth and some dust forever
I see you, my niggas call me "The Enemy Watcher"
The minute we spot ya, the semi'll pop, nigga, we got ya
I'm livin' to conquer, remember the mantra, I'm grippin' the launcher
Like Em and the Doctor with no guilty conscience
I'm still shockin' like droppin' a boombox in bathwater
More shockin' than a pissed off Blanka
[Verse 3: Joell Ortiz]
I just finished fuckin' a fish called Wanda
I'm finna wander off into yonder
Beyond just mentally stronger, memory monster
I remember the sponsorin' thought that conquered his triple entendre
You the cross of a unicorn and The Unabomber
Quit horsin' around in this building or you a goner
Your Willy Wonka persona won't help you any longer
I'm Optimus, I make prime examples of mini Tonkas
Hogtie your squad and go bonkers
Spin, grab Denaun's guitar and Honky Tonk ya
All your bars subpar like good golfers
I put a hole in one of you birdies with this Eagle and launch it (Pew)

[Chorus: Eminem]
I thought I heard a voice in my head that said "Kill"
I had no other choice that was left except fill
My pencil full of poisonous lead, the devil
He wants me to murder this beat, so I will
He told me there are doubters who question my skill
They wanna put my style to the test, am I still
The best? They want the crown on my head, I said, "Chill
If you want me to murder this beat, then I will"

[Verse 4: Eminem]
Now this will probably be the most illest shit that I've ever said
God bless the dead and let Biggie possess the pencil lead
They called me a sped and said that I had a messed up head
'Cause I said, "Motherfuck school," and instead went to special ed
Sippin' Bacardi and lime I start to recollect on the time
That I startled my mom and had her scared to death
Word to Method Man
She heard some Wu-Tang coming from towards the patio
She was like, "What the heck was that?"
She went to check on the noise and go inspect the deck
Then I jumped out with a sword and yelled, "Protect your neck"
Now bow to the Lord, hold up, no, better yet, kneel
Better yet, get down on all fours and take a vow to always
Rejoice in the sound of my voice, but you don't have a choice
Just a third of my will will overpower yours
Using about a fourth to create the amount of force
It'll take to knock out a horse like a tranq full of Tylenol
Enter my house of horrors with a thousand floors
Got a crown of thorns, but it won't fit around the horns
But I'ma keep it a buck like a dollar store
I'm more than you bargained for and I am far more worse
Than a forty-some bar Lord Jamar verse
Nothing means more than respect, so when I curse
You could say I swore to protect
My image, I have zero time or regard for
A never-was, been claiming rap when it's not yours
If it was anyone's house, G Rap and Rakim would be havin' you mop floors
Run-DMC would be havin' you cleanin' sinks
Yeah, your group was off the chain, but you were the weakest link
Rest of these youngins of mine
Time to start throwing some shade, this time I'm shutting the blinds
'Cause when I'm looking at y'all, shit, it's no wonder it's why
I need a visor, 'cause y'all are just sons in my eyes
Born a cynic and more demented than an orphanage with a morgue up in it
Next door to an abortion clinic
Newborn infants tortured and tormented
With their foreheads dented when they drop 'cause the floor's cemented
Their corpses get ornamented
The coroner with a storage bin rented
To store them in and the torsos of forty women reported missin'
Distorted, twisted, this isn't no storybook ending
This is only the beginning
So, Lord, forgive me, I'm hearing voices
I can't ignore them anymore, they're winning
[Chorus: Eminem]
I thought I heard a voice in my head that said "Kill"
I had no other choice that was left except fill
My pencil full of poisonous lead, the devil
He wants me to murder this beat, so I will
He told me there are doubters who question my skill
They wanna put my style to the test, am I still
The best? They want the crown on my head, I said, "Chill
If you want me to murder this beat, then I will"

[Outro: Eminem]
And I don't think that I can stop it (Here it comes)
I do my best to try to block it (Redrum)
I've been sipping on like, vodka (Head's numb)
I'm blacking out, you better watch it (It's bedlam)

Title: Marsh
Release Date: January 17, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Eminem-marsh-lyrics
Song Description: On Marsh, Eminem compares himself to aliens and uses the hyperbole of being a martian to express that hes figuratively out of this world. Em further backs up his claim by rapping three witty verses to prove his point.

Although mentioning that he has no interest in beefing with any more artists, Em does take the opportunity to imitate modern-day rappers, especially Travis Scott, by using auto-tuned ad-libs in the chorus, including Scotts signature Its Lit! ad-lib.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
My name is Marsh and this world, I'm out of it (Out of it)
'Cause with all this A-B-C shit, I'm starting to sound like ALF a bit
Ha, I kill me, this medicine's counterfeit
I was mislead by the sound of it, how am I gonna get turnt up on this Valium shit? (Yeah)

[Verse 1]
Checked in at the Royal Garden
To chill and avoid my problems
Until paranoia caused me
To feel like I'm going bonkers
For real, think my toilet's talkin'
I spilled like, like forty bottles
Of pills, think your boy is startin'
To feel like a spoiled carton of milk
'Cause it just occurred
My girl's cheatin', I'm kickin' that fucking bitch to the curb
But the word "fucking" ain't meant to be a descriptive word
The type of bitch she is, ain't no adjective, it's a verb
Ho thinks her snatch is magical
But that's how she attracts men, though
Traps 'em and attack similar to an actual arachnid
Or a vaginal tarantula or black widow
In fact, it'll be nothin' to throw that lil' bitch with a capital B out the back window
Of the black Cadillac limo like a whack demo
When I'm strapped, when I spit rapid, like a ratchet
A halfwit, I'll aim at, then I'll
Been fire bitch, I can outrap Reynolds
A pad and pen'll be great, but a napkin'll do
Return of the whack sicko
Head spinnin' like Invisibl Skratch Piklz
Yeah, Shady's back, see the bat signal
It's time to go bat shit, like you accidentally ate a Louisville slugger and crapped it
I'd like to introduce myself
Hi there, bitch...
See Eminem LiveGet tickets as low as $60You might also like[Chorus]
My name is Marsh and, I'm out this world (This world)
S on my chest (Superman) like it's plural (It's lit)
Call me extra, extraterrestrial
Extra, extra, extraterrestrial (Skrrt, yeah)

[Verse 2]
I could keep beefin', fuck is the point?
I could make it really difficult for motherfuckers to come to Detroit
If you're still looking for smoke, I already gave you an L
I'd rather just see you in Hell, but I should get Puff on the joint (Diddy)
Wait, run it back, I said give you an L, inhale
Puff on the joint, I am the blunt you avoid
Used to get jumped for my ProWings
When I was growing up they said a Slinky's a wonderful toy
My mother thought I was such a fun little boy
"Oh, what a bundle of joy"
Until the morning she suffered a punch in the groin
From a tantrum I was throwing
Like a motherfuckin' disgruntled employee
I don't cut the beat 'til I fuckin' destroy it
Once I get going, rain, thunder, it's storming
Puddles are forming, I hear somebody's voice
In my head, say it's still a dream
Then he said kill emcees
Trippie Redd, with pills and lean
Sipping meds in the limousine
Getting head, guillotine
[Chorus]
My name’s Marsh and, I'm out this world (This world)
S on my chest (Superman) like it's plural (It's lit)
Call me extra, extraterrestrial (Yeah)
Extra, extra, extraterrestrial

[Verse 3]
Yeah
So all of y'all can just suck a penis (Suck a penis)
I'll do the opposite (I'll do the opposite)
Eat you pussies like cunnilingus (Like cunnilingus)
There ain't no stoppin' it (There ain't no stoppin' it)
They say I'm such a genius (They say I'm such a genius)
When that Kamikaze hit (When that Kamikaze hit)
Now they call me "butterfingers" (They call me "butterfingers")
'Cause I just keep droppin' shit (I just keep droppin' shit)
You wanna butt heads? Shut up, Beavis, haha
I got your bitch with her butt out
I'm hittin' a lick 'cause she stickin' her tongue out (Bitch)
You got no hitters, you might be pitchin' a shut out
She 'bout to give up the dugout (Yeah)
I should just live in a nuthouse
Right now, I live in an igloo (Yeah)
And I'm not chillin' the fuck out
Treat you like a stepparent, does to a stepchild with red hair and
Plus I get dough like Ed Sheeran, so call me the ginger bread man
I'm a stan of Redman, X-Clan and I'm a Treach fan
But I look up to myself (Yeah)
Like a fucking headstand (Yeah)
So why, w-w-w-why else would I call myself an alien?
How could I hit a dry spell? (Yeah), I'm named after the wetlands
[Chorus]
I'm Marsh and, I'm out this world (This world)
S on my chest (Superman) like it's plural (It's lit)
Call me extra, extraterrestrial (Yeah)
My name is Marsh and, my name is, my name is
My name is Marsh96Embed
