Artist: Kendrick Lamar, Alternate Names: Kendrick Duckworth, Kendrick Lamar Duckworth, K-Dot
Artist Description: Kendrick Lamar Duckworth (born June 17, 1987) is an American rapper and songwriter from Compton, California.

He first gained major attention after the release of his 2010 mixtape O(verly) D(edicated). In 2011, his album Section.80, released exclusively through iTunes, instantly ranked as one of the top digital hip-hop releases of the year. In 2012, he crossed over to mainstream audiences with his major label debut, good kid, m.A.A.d city, which was widely regarded as an instant classic. In 2015, he released To Pimp a Butterfly to widespread acclaim. The album debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 Albums Chart. The following year, untitled unmastered. was released by surprise. In April of 2017, Kendrick released DAMN. on Good Friday. After five years of silence, on May 13, 2022, Kendrick released his fifth studio album, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers.

Known for his storytelling, imagery, wordplay, passion and varied song structures, Kendrick brings hard-hitting lyricism with narratives to the West Coast, not traditionally known for its lyricists.

Kendrick Lamar’s position within the rap game is held incredibly high. Lamar was ranked at No. 2 on Billboard’s 10 Best Rappers of All Time list, alongside artists like Jay-Z, Nas, Notorious B.I.G. and more. He has also been nominated for 47 Grammy Awards and has won 17 of them; with three for Best Rap Album. He is also the only rapper to win all of the Grammy Awards in the rap field at the same ceremony, doing so in 2016 and 2018.

Lamar is a member of the hip-hop collective Black Hippy, along with Jay Rock, ScHoolboy Q and Ab-Soul—all of whom came up together as a part of Top Dawg Entertainment; however, in 2022, it was announced that Kendrick would be departing TDE following the release of his fifth studio album. He is also signed to Dr. Dre’s Aftermath Entertainment imprint, under Interscope Records.

In February of 2018, Kendrick and TDE released Black Panther: The Album (Music from and Inspired by). It debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200. In April, later the same year, he won the Pulitzer Prize in music for his album, DAMN.

Several years of relative inactivity followed, with Kendrick only resurfacing for features or collaborative efforts. In March of 2020, Lamar and Dave Free launched PgLang, a production company whose name stands for “program language.” In August 2021, Kendrick launched a new website, where he proceeded to announce the release date for his next project in April of 2022. Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers appeared on Friday, May 13, as promised—a double album five years in the making.

Songs:

Title: HUMBLE.
Release Date: March 30, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-humble-lyrics
Song Description: On the ironically braggadocious track HUMBLE. Kendrick Lamar challenges his competition. It was released a week after the first promotional single, The Heart Part 4, with a music video directed by Dave Meyers and The Little Homies. It features religious imagery mixed with urban life, such as Kendrick in priests robes and a moving re-enactment of Leonardo Da Vincis painting The Last Supperjuxtaposing this with the concept of humility in the chorus.

On a religious note, the song could also be a reference to James Chapter 4, verse 7:

So humble yourselves before God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

Mike WiLL Made-It produced the beat. It features a deep piano riff and a banging 808 bass line. This style of production is a departure from the sound of Kendricks previous jazz-influenced project, To Pimp a Butterfly. It seems to reference the character Deebos theme song from the popular comedy movie Friday (1995). Kendrick is also shown riding through the neighborhood on a bicycle in the music video, similar to Deebo in Friday.

The song debuted at No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 on April 22, 2017, making it not only the highest charting song for Kendrick, but also one of the highest debuting hip-hop singles since Love the Way You Lie by Eminem. The song later hit No. 1 on the chart on June 5, 2017, making it Lamars first solo No. 1 song and second No. 1 song overall on the charts.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Nobody pray for me
It been that day for me
Way (Yeah, yeah)

[Verse 1]
Ayy, I remember syrup sandwiches and crime allowances
Finesse a nigga with some counterfeits, but now I'm countin’ this
Parmesan where my accountant lives, in fact, I'm downin' this
D’ussé with my boo bae, tastes like Kool-Aid for the analysts
Girl, I can buy your ass the world with my paystub
Ooh, that pussy good, won't you sit it on my taste bloods?
I get way too petty once you let me do the extras
Pull up on your block, then break it down, we playin' Tetris
A.m. to the p.m., p.m. to the a.m., funk
Piss out your per diem, you just gotta hate 'em, funk
If I quit your BM, I still ride Mercedes, funk
If I quit this season, I still be the greatest, funk
My left stroke just went viral
Right stroke put lil' baby in a spiral
Soprano C, we like to keep it on a high note
It's levels to it, you and I know

[Chorus]
Bitch, be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, lil'— hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, sit down, lil’— sit down, lil’ bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, lil' bitch)
Bitch, sit down (Hold up, lil’ bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up)
Be humble (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, lil'—)
Sit down (Hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, sit down, lil'— sit down, lil’ bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, lil' bitch)
Bitch, sit down (Hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up)
You might also like[Verse 2]
Who that nigga thinkin' that he frontin' on Man-Man? (Man-Man)
Get the fuck off my stage, I'm the Sandman (Sandman)
Get the fuck off my dick, that ain't right
I make a play fucking up your whole life
I'm so fuckin' sick and tired of the Photoshop
Show me somethin' natural like afro on Richard Pryor
Show me somethin' natural like ass with some stretch marks
Still'll take you down right on your mama couch in Polo socks
Ayy, this shit way too crazy, ayy, you do not amaze me, ayy
I blew cool from AC, ayy, Obama just paged me, ayy
I don't fabricate it, ayy, most of y'all be fakin', ayy
I stay modest 'bout it, ayy, she elaborate it, ayy
This that Grey Poupon, that Evian, that TED Talk, ayy
Watch my soul speak, you let the meds talk, ayy
If I kill a nigga, it won't be the alcohol, ayy
I'm the realest nigga after all

[Chorus]
Bitch, be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, lil'— hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, sit down, lil'— sit down, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, lil' bitch)
Bitch, sit down (Hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up)
Be humble (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, lil'—)
Sit down (Hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, sit down, lil'— sit down, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, lil' bitch)
Bitch, sit down (Hold up, lil' bitch)
Be humble (Hold up, bitch)
Sit down (Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up)1.2KEmbed

Title: euphoria
Release Date: April 30, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-euphoria-lyrics
Song Description: euphoria serves as Kendricks highly anticipated response to Drakes April 2024 diss tracks, Push Ups and Taylor Made Freestyle, which came after Kendrick targeted Drake and J. Cole on Future and Metro Boomins March 2024 single, Like That.

His first solo release since his 2022 album Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers, this surprise dropped via YouTube on April 30, 2024 at 8:24 am Pacific Standard Time as a subtle nod to fellow Los Angeles legend and former Laker, the late Kobe Bryant8 and 24 were Kobes jersey numbers. euphoria became available via streaming services a few hours later.

The song has three distinct parts, playing off his bar on the previously mentioned Like That:

Fuck sneak dissin, first-person shooter, I hope they came with three switches

Kendricks tone becomes more hostile with every switch, and the instrumentation similarly becomes more eerie and aggressive. He attacks Drake on numerous fronts, including his behavior, psychology, life choices, public perception, and appropriation of and disconnect from an authentic Black cultural experience.

The singles artwork is a screenshot of the definition of euphoria with two example sentences, originating from the online dictionary Merriam-Webster; euphoria became the most searched word on Merriam-Webster when the song dropped. The second example sentence is:

They had almost a week to recover from the euphoria of Tuesdays series-winning victory.

With the single released on a Tuesday, Kendrick is inferring this track is a victory in their feud. Its also speculated that the songs title references HBOs Euphoria, the popular teen drama that Drake executive produces. Incidentally, the show has been repeatedly criticized for sexualizing teenage girls, coinciding with the many rumors of Drakes odd relationships with girls; Kendricks subsequent diss tracks meet the grahams and Not Like Us focused heavily on such allegations.

Notably, euphoria temporarily crashed the Genius website when it dropped as fans rushed to decipher the lyrics.
Lyrics:

[Part I]
[Intro]
​eurt si em tuoba yas yeht gnihtyrevE
Euphoria

[Verse]
Them super powers gettin' neutralized, I can only watch in silence
The famous actor we once knew is lookin' paranoid and now is spiralin'
You're movin' just like a degenerate, every antic is feelin' distasteful
I calculate you're not as calculated, I can even predict your angle
Fabricatin' stories on the family front 'cause you heard Mr. Morale
A pathetic master manipulator, I can smell the tales on you now
You'rе not a rap artist, you a scam artist with the hopes of being accеpted
Tommy Hilfiger stood out, but FUBU never had been your collection
I make music that electrify 'em, you make music that pacify 'em
I can double down on that line, but spare you this time, that's random acts of kindness
Know you a master manipulator and habitual liar too
But don't tell no lie about me and I won't tell truths 'bout you
[Part II]
[Intro]
Shoo, shoo, shoo
Shoo, shoo, shoo
Bee, bee, bee, bee, bee, bee
You might also like[Verse 1]
Yeah, I'm out the way, yeah, I'm low, okay
Yeah, the island right here's remote, okay
I ain't thinkin' about no reaper, nigga, I'm reapin' what I sow, okay
Got a Benjamin and a Jackson all in my house like I'm Joe, okay
Hellcat, made his homeboys and them type sell they soul, okay
Everybody wanna be demon 'til they get chipped by a throwaway
And I might do a show a day, once a lame, always a lame
Oh, you thought the money, the power or fame would make you go away?
Have you ever played have-you-ever? Okay, nigga, let's play
Have you ever walked your enemy down like with a poker face?
Have you ever paid five hundred thou' like to an open case?
Well, I have, and I failed at both, but I came out straight
I hate when a rapper talk about guns, then somebody die, they turn into nuns
Then hop online like "Pray for my city," he fakin' for likes and digital hugs
His daddy a killer, he wanna be junior, they must've forgot the shit that they done
Dementia must run in his family, but let it get shaky
I'll park his son
The very first time I shot me a Drac', the homie had told me to aim it this way
I didn't point down enough, today, I'll show you I learned from those mistakes
Somebody had told me that you got a ring, on God, I'm ready to double the wage
I'd rather do that than let a Canadian nigga make Pac turn in his grave
Cutthroat business, you got shit twisted
What is it? The braids?
I hurt your feelings? You don't wanna work with me no more? Okay
It's three GOATs left, and I seen two of them kissin' and huggin' on stage
I love 'em to death, and in eight bars, I'll explain that phrase, huh
It's nothin' nobody can tell me, huh
I don't wanna talk on no celly, huh
You know I got language barriers, huh
It's no accent you can sell me, huh
Yeah, Cole and Aubrey know I'm a selfish nigga, the crown is heavy, huh
I pray they my real friends, if not, I'm YNW Melly
I don't like you poppin' shit at Pharrell, for him, I inherit the beef
Yeah, fuck all that pushin' P, let me see you push a T
You better off spinnin' again on him, you think about pushin' me
He's Terrence Thornton, I'm Terence Crawford, yeah, I'm whoopin' feet
We ain't gotta get personal, this a friendly fade, you should keep it that way
I know some shit about niggas that make Gunna Wunna look like a saint
This ain't been about critics, not about gimmicks, not about who the greatest
It's always been about love and hate, now let me say I'm the biggest hater
I hate the way that you walk, the way that you talk, I hate the way that you dress
I hate the way that you sneak diss, if I catch flight, it's gon' be direct
We hate the bitches you fuck 'cause they confuse themself with real women
And notice, I said "we," it's not just me, I'm what the culture feelin'
How many more fairytale stories 'bout your life 'til we had enough?
How many more Black features 'til you finally feel that you're Black enough?
I like Drake with the melodies, I don't like Drake when he act tough
You gon' make a nigga bring back Puff, let me see if Chubbs really crash somethin'
Yeah, my first one like my last one, it's a classic, you don't have one
Let your core audience stomach that, then tell 'em where you get your abs from
V12, it's a fast one, baow-baow-baow, last one
Headshot for the year, you better walk around like Daft Punk
[Verse 2]
Remember?
Ayy, Top Dawg, who the fuck they think they playin' with?
Extortion my middle name as soon as you jump off of that plane, bitch
I'm allergic to the lame shit, only you like bein' famous
Yachty can't give you no swag neither, I don't give a fuck 'bout who you hang with
I hate the way that you walk, the way that you talk, I hate the way that you dress
Surprised you wanted that feature request, you know that we got some shit to address
I even hate when you say the word "nigga," but that's just me, I guess
Some shit just cringeworthy, it ain't even gotta be deep, I guess
Still love when you see success, everything with me is blessed
Keep makin' me dance, wavin' my hand, and it won't be no threat
I'm knowin' they call you The Boy, but where is a man? 'Cause I ain't seen him yet
Matter fact, I ain't even bleed him yet, can I bleed him? (Bet)
When I see you stand by Sexyy Red, I believe you see two bad bitches
I believe you don't like women, it's real competition, you might pop ass with 'em
Let's speak on percentage, show me your splits, I'll make sure I double back with ya
You were signed to a nigga that's signed to a nigga that said he was signed to that nigga
Try cease and desist on the "Like That" record?
Ho, what? You ain't like that record?
"Back To Back," I like that record
I'ma get back to that, for the record
Why would I call around tryna get dirt on niggas? Y'all think all my life is rap?
That's ho shit, I got a son to raise, but I can see you don't know nothin' 'bout that
Wakin' him up, know nothin' 'bout that
Then tell him to pray, know nothin' 'bout that
Then givin' him tools to walk through life like day by day, know nothin' 'bout that
Teachin' him morals, integrity, discipline, listen, man, you don't know nothin' 'bout that
Speakin' the truth and consider what God's considerin', you don't know nothin' 'bout that
Ain't twenty-v-one, it's one-v-twenty if I gotta smack niggas that write with you
Yeah, bring 'em out too, I'll clean 'em out too, tell BEAM that he better stay right with you
Am I battlin' ghost or AI?
Nigga feelin' like Joel Osteen
Funny, he was in a film called A.I.
And my sixth sense tellin' me to off him
I'ma blick niggas all in they coffin
Yeah, OV-ho niggas is dick riders
Tell 'em run to America, they imitate heritage, they can't imitate this violence
What I learned is niggas don't like the West Coast, and I'm fine with it, I'll push the line with it
Pick a nigga off one at a time with it
We can be on a three-hour time difference
Don't speak on the family, crodie
It can get deep in the family, crodie
Talk about me and my family, crodie?
Someone gon' bleed in your family, crodie
I be at New Ho King eatin' fried rice with a dip sauce and a blammy, crodie
Tell me you're cheesin', fam
We can do this right now on the camera, crodie
Ayy, fuck y'all niggas, I don't trust y'all niggas
I wave one finger and thump y'all niggas like mmm
Field goal, punt y'all niggas, they punk y'all niggas, nobody never took my food
Whoever that's fuckin' with him, fuck you niggas, and fuck the industry too
If you take it there, I'm takin' it further
Psst, that's something you don't wanna do
[Outro]
Ooh
We don't wanna hear you say "nigga" no more
We don't wanna hear you say "nigga" no more
Stop145Embed

Title: Not Like Us
Release Date: May 4, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-not-like-us-lyrics
Song Description: Not Like Us is Kendrick Lamars fourth diss track directed at Drake, released on the evening of May 4, 2024, less than 24 hours after the release of meet the grahams, his third dedicated diss. On the track, Kendrick avenges the West Coast for Drakes controversial use of 2Pac and Snoop Dogg A.I. vocals on his song Taylor Made Freestyle, Drakes second diss released via Instagram on April 19. It was removed shortly thereafter because of a cease-and-desist from the estate of the late Tupac Shakur.

Kendrick raps over a bouncy Mustard-produced beat which, typical of Mustards style, is inspired by hyphya genre of hip-hop popularized in Northern Californias Bay Area. In a June 2024 interview with Billboard, Mustard revealed that he heard the final mix when the song was released, the beat took him 30 minutes to make, and he talked about the inspiration for his production:

When I was making it, I was, in the back of my head, is: What would Dr. Dre do if Lil Jon was in the studio and they was collabin' on the beat? That was my thought process.

Kendricks zany vocal inflections and fast flows are reminiscent of Bay Area legend E-40, a personal favorite of his who was shouted out on October 2012s Money Trees:

Dreams of livin' life like rappers do (Like rappers do, like rappers do)
Bump that new E-40 after school (Way after school, way after school)

Among other disses, notably calling Drake a snitch and culture vulture, Kendrick doubles down on prior allegations made against Drake of sexual deviancy. This time, he outright uses the term certified pedophile as a clever play on Drakes September 2021 album, Certified Lover Boy.

The cover art features what appears to be an aerial view of Drakes mansion at Park Lane Circle in Toronto, Canada. Park Lane Circle is a Toronto oasis where celebrities love to build extremely lavish mansions. The thumbnail, edited in a way that closely resembles the sex offender registry which pinpoints convicted offenders' residencies, is continuing the thread of allegations made by Kendrick Lamar that Drake is a sexual predator. It insinuates that Drakes mansion, nicknamed The Embassy, is a hub for illegal sexual activity.

The track was first teased on Twitter by two people: one of Kendricks associates and Anthony Top Dawg Tiffith, founder of TDE, the label and collective that Kendrick belonged to before launching pgLang. The first tweet stated that [Kendrick]s nowhere near done. Top Dawg then posted, Dot, I see dead people  foreshadowing the opening line of the song, which dropped approximately two hours later.

Not Like Us became a massively successful hit song both domestically and internationally, breaking several records. On May 7, 2024, it broke the record for most single-day Spotify streams for a hip-hop song in the US, surpassing Drake & Lil Babys September 2021 collaboration, Girls Want Girls, which hit a peak of 6.6 million. The next day, it was reported to have broken the global record, beating out Drakes single-day peak of 11.85 million with September 2021s Champagne Poetry. On May 13th, Billboard reported that the song would debut at the top of the Hot 100, making it Kendricks fourth #1 hit and first #1 debut in his home country. It did so with the charts release the next day, along with the news that it had broken the record for fastest hip-hop song to reach 100 million Spotify streams, surpassing Drakes January 2018 single, Gods Plan. May 15 saw the song breaking the record for most Spotify streams in a week in the 2020s, surpassing Taylor Swift and Post Malones Fortnight from April 2024.

The first live performance of Not Like Us took place at Kendricks Juneteenth show The Pop Out: Ken & Friends at the Kia Forum in Inglewood, California on June 19, 2024. The show was streamed worldwide through Amazon Prime and Kendrick performed Not Like Us multiple times to close the show as the stage filled with fellow West Coast representatives such as Mustard, YG, DeMar DeRozan and Russell Westbrook among others. The music video was shot in Kendricks hometown of Compton, California on June 22 and it premiered on July 4th.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Psst, I see dead people
(Mustard on the beat, ho)
[Verse 1]
Ayy, Mustard on the beat, ho
Deebo any rap nigga, he a free throw
Man down, call an amberlamps, tell him, "Breathe, bro"
Nail a nigga to the cross, he walk around like Teezo
What's up with these jabroni-ass niggas tryna see Compton?
The industry can hate me, fuck 'em all and they mama
How many opps you really got? I mean, it's too many options
I'm finna pass on this body, I'm John Stockton
Beat your ass and hide the Bible if God watchin'
Sometimes you gotta pop out and show niggas
Certified boogeyman, I'm the one that up the score with 'em
Walk him down, whole time, I know he got some ho in him
Pole on him, extort shit, bully Death Row on him
Say, Drake, I hear you like 'em young
You better not ever go to cell block one
To any bitch that talk to him and they in love
Just make sure you hide your lil' sister from him
They tell me Chubbs the only one that get your hand-me-downs
And Party at the party playin' with his nose now
And Baka got a weird case, why is he around?
Certified Lover Boy? Certified pedophiles
Wop, wop, wop, wop, wop, Dot, fuck 'em up
Wop, wop, wop, wop, wop, I'ma do my stuff
Why you trollin' like a bitch? Ain't you tired?
Tryna strike a chord and it's probably A minor
You might also like[Chorus]
They not like us, they not like us, they not like us
They not like us, they not like us, they not like us
[Verse 2]
You think the Bay gon' let you disrespect Pac, nigga?
I think that Oakland show gon' be your last stop, nigga
Did Cole foul, I don't know why you still pretendin'
What is the owl? Bird niggas and burnt bitches, go
The audience not dumb
Shape the stories how you want, hey, Drake, they're not slow
Rabbit hole is still deep, I can go further, I promise
Ain't that somethin'? B-Rad stands for bitch and you Malibu most wanted
Ain't no law, boy, you ball boy, fetch Gatorade or somethin'
Since 2009, I had this bitch jumpin'
You niggas'll get a wedgie, be flipped over your boxers
What OVO for? The "Other Vaginal Option"? Pussy
Nigga better straighten they posture, got famous all up in Compton
Might write this for the doctorate, tell the pop star quit hidin'
Fuck a caption, want action, no accident
And I'm hands-on, he fuck around, get polished
Fucked on Wayne girl while he was in jail, that's connivin'
Then get his face tatted like a bitch apologizin'
I'm glad DeRoz' came home, y'all didn't deserve him neither
From Alondra down to Central, nigga better not speak on Serena
And your homeboy need subpoena, that predator move in flocks
That name gotta be registered and placed on neighborhood watch
I lean on you niggas like another line of Wock'
Yeah, it's all eyes on me, and I'ma send it up to Pac, ayy
Put the wrong label on me, I'ma get 'em dropped, ayy
Sweet Chin Music and I won't pass the aux, ayy
How many stocks do I really have in stock? Ayy
One, two, three, four, five, plus five, ayy
Devil is a lie, he a 69 God, ayy
Freaky-ass niggas need to stay they ass inside, ayy
Roll they ass up like a fresh pack of 'za, ayy
City is back up, it's a must, we outside, ayy
[Chorus]
They not like us, they not like us, they not like us
They not like us, they not like us, they not like us
[Verse 3]
Once upon a time, all of us was in chains
Homie still doubled down callin' us some slaves
Atlanta was the Mecca, buildin' railroads and trains
Bear with me for a second, let me put y'all on game
The settlers was usin' townfolk to make 'em richer
Fast-forward, 2024, you got the same agenda
You run to Atlanta when you need a check balance
Let me break it down for you, this the real nigga challenge
You called Future when you didn't see the club (Ayy, what?)
Lil Baby helped you get your lingo up (What?)
21 gave you false street cred
Thug made you feel like you a slime in your head (Ayy, what?)
Quavo said you can be from Northside (What?)
2 Chainz say you good, but he lied
You run to Atlanta when you need a few dollars
No, you not a colleague, you a fuckin' colonizer
The family matter and the truth of the matter
It was God's plan to show y'all the liar
[Bridge]
Mm
Mm-mm
He a fan, he a fan, he a fan (Mm)
He a fan, he a fan, he a
Freaky-ass nigga, he a 69 God
Freaky-ass nigga, he a 69 God
Hey, hey, hey, hey, run for your life
Hey, hey, hey, hey, run for your life
Freaky-ass nigga, he a 69 God
Freaky-ass nigga, he a 69 God
Hey, hey, hey, hey, run for your life
Hey, hey, hey, hey, run for your life
Let me hear you say, "OV-ho" (OV-ho)
Say, "OV-ho" (OV-ho)
Then step this way, step that way
Then step this way, step that way
[Outro]
Are you my friend?
Are we locked in?
Then step this way, step that way
Then step this way, step that way153Embed

Title: m.A.A.d city
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-maad-city-lyrics
Song Description: m.A.A.d is an acronym for both my Angels on Angel dust and my Angry Adolescence divided.

m.A.A.d is also a reference to the 90s Compton based hip-hop group WC and the Maad Circle. The leader, WC, would go on to form Westside Connection, a group heavily associated with LA-based artists Ice Cube from N.W.A, and Mack 10.

Kendricks recent beat-down brings back early memories of similar situations, witnessing someone with their brains blown out at a burger stand back when he was 9 (probably referring to his Uncle Tony, or someone in a similar situation), he thinks he knows the person who did it but he censors their name. He also talks about how his cousin was killed back in 94.

He talks about his father telling him to get a job but hes fired after his friends pressure him into staging a robbery. He gives his reason for why he doesnt smoke when he tells a story of smoking marijuana laced with cocaine and foaming at the mouth.

In the final verse he tries to let the good shine through and offer respite for the youth and how they dont have to succumb to the temptations and pressures of the street. He hopes that his experience and intelligence can do good for the youth living in similar situations.
Lyrics:

[Part I]
[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar & ScHoolboy Q]
If Pirus and Crips all got along
They'd probably gun me down by the end of this song
Seem like the whole city go against me
Every time I'm in the street, I hear—
Yawk! Yawk! Yawk! Yawk!
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Man down, where you from, nigga?
Fuck who you know—where you from, my nigga?
Where your grandma stay, huh, my nigga?
This m.A.A.d city I run, my nigga
[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
Brace yourself, I'll take you on a trip down memory lane
This is not a rap on how I'm slingin' crack or move cocaine
This is cul-de-sac and plenty Cognac and major pain
Not the drill sergeant, but the stress that weighin' on your brain
It was me, L Boog, and Yan Yan, YG Lucky ride down Rosecrans
It got ugly, wavin' yo' hand out the window — check yourself
Uh, Warriors and Conans, hope euphoria can slow dance
With society, the driver seat, the first one to get killed
Seen a light-skinned nigga with his brains blown out
At the same burger stand where **** hang out
Now this is not a tape recorder sayin' that he did it
But ever since that day, I was lookin' at him different
That was back when I was nine, Joey packed the nine
Pakistan on every porch is fine, we adapt to crime
Pack a van with four guns at a time
With the sliding door, fuck is up?
Fuck you shootin' for if you ain't walkin' up, you fuckin' punk?
Pickin' up the fuckin' pump, pickin' off you suckers
Suck a dick or die or sucker punch
A wall of bullets comin' from AK's, AR's, "Ayy, y'all—duck"
That's what mama said when we was eatin' that free lunch
Aw man, goddamn, all hell broke loose
You killed my cousin back in '94, fuck yo' truce
Now crawl your head in that noose
You wind up dead on the news
Ain't no peace treaty, just piecin' BGs up to pre-approve
Bodies on top of bodies, IVs on top of IVs
Obviously the coroner between the sheets like the Isleys
When you hop on that trolley, make sure your color's correct
Make sure you're corporate, or they'll be callin' your mother collect
They say the governor collect all of our taxes, except
When we in traffic and tragic happens, that shit ain't no threat
You movin' backwards if you suggest that you sleep with a TEC
Go buy a chopper and have a doctor on speed dial, I guess
​m.A.A.d. city
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Man down, where you from, nigga?
Fuck who you know—where you from, my nigga?
Where your grandma stay, huh, my nigga?
This m.A.A.d city I run, my nigga
[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar & ScHoolboy Q]
If Pirus and Crips all got along
They'd probably gun me down by the end of this song
Seem like the whole city go against me
Every time I'm in the street, I hear—
Yawk! Yawk! Yawk!—
[Part II]
[Intro: MC Eiht]
Wake yo' punk-ass up
It ain't nothin' but a Compton thang
G-yeah, real simple and plain
Let me teach you some lessons about the street
(Smoke somethin', nigga?)
Hood ('Sup, cuz?)
It ain't nothin' but a Compton thang
G-yeah, how we do

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Fresh outta school 'cause I was a high school grad'
Sleepin' in the living room of my mama's pad
Reality struck, I seen the white car crash
Hit the light pole, two niggas hopped out on foot and dashed (Watch out, cuz)
My pops said I needed a job, I thought I believed him
Security guard for a month and ended up leavin'
In fact, I got fired 'cause I was inspired by all of my friends
To stage a robbery, the third Saturday I clocked in
Projects tore up, gang signs get thrown up (Sup?)
Cocaine laced in marijuana
And they wonder why I rarely smoke now
Imagine if your first blunt had you foamin' at the mouth
I was straight tweakin', the next weekend we broke even
I made allegiance that made a promise to see you bleedin'
You know the reasons, but still'll never know my life
Kendrick a.k.a. "Compton's Human Sacrifice"
[Break: MC Eiht]
G-yeah, cocaine, weed
Niggas been mixin' shit since the '80s, loc
Sherm sticks, butt-nakeds
Dip, make a nigga flip
Cluck heads all up and down the block and shit
One time's crooked and shit
Block a nigga in
Alondra, Rosecrans, Bullis, it's Compton
[Verse 2: MC Eiht]
I'm still in the hood, loc, yeah, that's cool
Shit, the hood took me under, so I follow the rules
But, yeah, that's like me, I grew up in the hood where they bang
And niggas that rep colors is doin' the same thang
Pass it to the left, so I can smoke on me
A couple drive-bys in the hood lately, yeah
Couple of IV's with the fuckin' spray-can
Shots in the crowd, then everybody ran
Crew I'm finna slay, the street life I crave
Shots hit the enemy, hearts turn brave
Mount up, regulators in the whip
Down the boulevard with the pistol grip, yeah
Trip, we in the hood still
So, loc, grab a strap 'cause, yeah, it's so real, yeah
Deal with the outcome, a strap in the hand
And a bird and ten grand's where a mothafucka stand
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
If I told you I killed a nigga at sixteen, would you believe me?
Perceive me to be innocent Kendrick you seen in the street
With a basketball and some Now and Laters to eat?
If I mentioned all of my skeletons, would you jump in the seat?
Would you say my intelligence now is great relief?
And it's safe to say that our next generation maybe can sleep
With dreams of bein' a lawyer or doctor
Instead of boy with a chopper that hold the cul-de-sac hostage
Kill 'em all if they gossip
The Children of the Corn,they vandalizin' the option
Of livin' a lie, drown their body with toxins
Constantly drinkin' and drive
Hit the powder, then watch this flame that arrive in his eye
Listen, coward, the concept is aim and then bang it and slide
Out that bitch with deposit, a price on his head, the tithes
Probably go to the projects
I live inside the belly of the rough, Compton, USA
Made me an Angel on Angel Dust, what?
[Interlude]
[Scratches]
​m.A.A.d city
Compton
[Outro]
Nigga, pass Dot the bottle, damn
You ain't the one that got fucked up
What you holdin' it for?
Niggas always actin' unsensitive and shit
Nigga, that ain't no word
Nigga, shut up
Hey, Dot, you good, my nigga?
Don't even trip
Just lay back and drink that2.2KEmbed

Title: Swimming Pools (Drank)
Release Date: July 31, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-swimming-pools-drank-lyrics
Song Description: Swimming Pools (Drank), the lead single from good kid, m.A.A.d city, addresses the psychological connection between peer pressure and alcoholism. What sounds like a club anthem is actually an introspective take on the social pressure and self-defeating attitudes that drive people to drink.

The theme of swimming in pools as a metaphor for drinking and alcoholism could be a reference to the 1964 short story The Swimmer by author John Cheever.

K-Dot spoke to Complex about the inspiration behind this song:

What better way to make something universal than to speak about drinking? Im coming from a household where you had to make a decisionyou were either a casual drinker or you were a drunk. Thats what that record is really about, me experiencing that as a kid and making my own decisions.

The radio version of Swimming Pools (Drank) ends here.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Pour up (Drank), head shot (Drank)
Sit down (Drank), stand up (Drank)
Pass out (Drank), wake up (Drank)
Faded (Drank), faded (Drank)

[Verse 1]
Now, I done grew up round some people livin' their life in bottles
Granddaddy had the golden flask, backstroke every day in Chicago
Some people like the way it feel, some people wanna kill their sorrow
Some people wanna fit in with the popular, that was my problem
I was in a dark room, loud tunes, lookin' to make a vow soon
That I'ma get fucked up, fillin' up my cup I see the crowd mood
Changin' by the minute and the record on repeat
Took a sip, then another sip, then somebody said to me
[Chorus]
Nigga, why you babysittin' only two or three shots?
I'ma show you how to turn it up a notch
First, you get a swimming pool full of liquor, then you dive in it
Pool full of liquor, then you dive in it
I wave a few bottles, then I watch 'em all flock
All the girls wanna play Baywatch
I got a swimming pool full of liquor and they dive in it
Po-Pool full of liquor, I'ma dive in it
You might also like[Post-Chorus]
Pour up (Drank), head shot (Drank)
Sit down (Drank), stand up (Drank)
Pass out (Drank), wake up (Drank)
Faded (Drank), faded (Drank)
[Verse 2]
Okay, now open your mind up and listen me, Kendrick
I am your conscience, if you do not hear me, then you will be history, Kendrick
I know that you're nauseous right now and I'm hopin' to lead you to victory, Kendrick
If I take another one down, I'ma drown in some poison, abusin' my limit
I think that I'm feelin' the vibe, I see the love in her eyes
I see the feelin', the freedom is granted as soon as the damage of vodka arrived
This how you capitalize, this is parental advised, and apparently, I'm over-influenced
By what you are doin', I thought I was doin' the most 'til someone said to me
[Chorus]
Nigga, why you babysittin' only two or three shots?
I'ma show you how to turn it up a notch
First, you get a swimming pool full of liquor, then you dive in it
Pool full of liquor, then you dive in it
I wave a few bottles, then I watch 'em all flock
All the girls wanna play Baywatch
I got a swimming pool full of liquor and they dive in it
Po-Pool full of liquor, I'ma dive in it
[Post-Chorus]
Pour up (Drank), head shot (Drank)
Sit down (Drank), stand up (Drank)
Pass out (Drank), wake up (Drank)
Faded (Drank), faded (Drank)

[Bridge]
I ride, you ride, bang
One chopper, one hundred shots, bang
Hop out, do you bang?
Two chopper, two hundred shots, bang
I ride, you ride, bang
One chopper, one hundred shots, bang
Hop out, do you bang?
Two chopper, two hundred shots, bang
[Chorus]
Nigga, why you babysittin' only two or three shots?
I'ma show you how to turn it up a notch
First, you get a swimming pool full of liquor, then you dive in it
Pool full of liquor, then you dive in it
I wave a few bottles, then I watch 'em all flock
All the girls wanna play Baywatch
I got a swimming pool full of liquor and they dive in it
Po-Pool full of liquor, I'ma dive in it
[Post-Chorus]
Pour up (Drank), head shot (Drank)
Sit down (Drank), stand up (Drank)
Pass out (Drank), wake up (Drank)
Faded (Drank), faded (Drank)
[Interlude]
Sherane
Sherane (Pool—Kendrick—Kendrick—lies in it)
Sherane, Sherane
(W-watch 'em all flock) Aw man…
Sherane (Girls wanna play-play-play)
Where is she takin' me? (I got)
Where is she takin' me? (Pool full of liquor, I'ma die in...)

[Verse 3]
All I—all I—all I—
All I have in life is my new appetite for failure
And I got hunger pain that grow insane, tell me, do that sound familiar?
If it do, then you're like me, makin' excuse that your relief
Is in the bottom of a bottle and the greenest indo leaf
As the window open, I release everything that corrode inside of me
I see you jokin', why you laugh? Don't you feel bad? I prob'ly sleep
And never ever wake up, never ever wake up, never ever wake up
In God I trust, but just when I thought I had enough
[Skit]
"They stomped the homie out over a bitch?
K-Dot, you good, blood?
Now we can drop, ye we can drop you back off"
"That nigga's straight, man, that nigga ain't trippin'"
"We gon' do the same ol' shit
I'ma pop a few shots, they gon' ru—they run opposite way
Fall right in ****'s lap
And he gon' tear they ass up, simple as that"
"And I hope that bitch that set him up, out there
We gon' pop that bitch too"
"Wait hold up, ayy, I see somebody"
*Car door opens and gunshots are fired*
"Aha! Got them niggas, K-Dot, you good?"
"L****, you good?"
"Yeah, blood, I'm good – Dave, you good?
Dave? Dave, say somethin' – Dave?
These bitch-ass niggas killed my brother!"
[Produced by T-Minus]

Title: Money Trees
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-money-trees-lyrics
Song Description: As explained in this, credits to Feeding Time of KTT for this summary.

K.Dot recaps the story so far. He talks about robbing the house, Home invasion was persuasive/From 9 to 5 I know its vacant. He mentions fucking Sherane and bragging about it to his homies, I fucked Sherane then went to tell my bros. He references Backseat Freestyle when he talks about rhyming to beats, Park the car then we started rhyming, ya bish/The only thing we had to free our mind. And he talks about jumping dudes who looked like they had more money than them, Then freeze that verse when we see dollar signs/You looking like an easy come up ya bish/A silver spoon I know you come from ya bish." The line in the chorus Everybody gon' respect the shooter/But the one in front of the gun lives forever. is deeply important, not just as a life motto, but in regards to the events that later take place in this story regarding Dave and his brother. Its also a reference to Kendricks Uncle Tony, who was shot and killed at Louies Burgers; this event is a snap back to reality from the dreams of living life like rappers do.

A sequel to this song titled Money Trees Deuce, was released on Jay Rocks 2015 album, 90059.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh, me and my niggas tryna get it, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
Hit the house lick, tell me, is you with it, ya bish? (Ya bish, ya bish)
Home invasion was persuasive (Was persuasive, was persuasive)
From nine to five, I know it's vacant, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
Dreams of livin' life like rappers do (Like rappers do, like rappers do)
Back when condom wrappers wasn't cool (They wasn't cool, they wasn't cool)
I fucked Sherane and went to tell my bros (Tell my bros, tell my bros)
Then Usher Raymond, "Let It Burn" came on ("Let Burn" came on, "Let Burn" came on)
Hot sauce all in our Top Ramen, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
Park the car, then we start rhymin', ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
The only thing we had to free our mind (Free our mind, free our mind)
Then freeze that verse when we see dollar signs (See dollar signs, see dollar signs)
You lookin' like an easy come-up, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
A silver spoon, I know you come from, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
And that's a lifestyle that we never knew (We never knew, we never knew)
Go at a reverend for the revenue

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
It go Halle Berry or hallelujah
Pick your poison, tell me what you doin'
Everybody gon' respect the shooter
But the one in front of the gun lives forever
(The one in front of the gun, forever)
And I been hustlin' all day, this-a-way, that-a-way
Through canals and alleyways, just to say
Money trees is the perfect place for shade
And that's just how I feel, nah, nah
A dollar might just fuck your main bitch
That's just how I feel, nah
A dollar might say fuck them niggas that you came with
That's just how I feel, nah, nah
A dollar might just make that lane switch
That's just how I feel, nah
A dollar might turn to a million and we all rich
That's just how I feel
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Dreams of livin' life like rappers do (Like rappers do, like rappers do)
Bump that new E-40 after school (Way after school, way after school)
You know, "Big Ballin' With My Homies" (My homies)
Earl Stevens had us thinkin' rational (Thinkin' rational, that's rational)
Back to reality, we poor, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
Another casualty at war, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
Two bullets in my Uncle Tony head (My Tony head, my Tony head)
He said one day I'll be on tour, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
That Louis Burgers never be the same (Won't be the same, won't be the same)
A Louis belt'll never ease that pain (Won't ease that pain, won't ease that pain)
But I'ma purchase when that day is jerkin' (That day is jerkin', day is jerkin')
Pull off at Church's with Pirellis skrrtin' (Pirellis skrrtin', Pirellis skrrtin')
Gang signs out the window, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
Hopin' all of 'em offend you, ya bish (Ya bish, ya bish)
They say your hood is a pot of gold (A pot of gold, a pot of gold)
And we gon' crash it when nobody's home

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
It go Halle Berry or hallelujah
Pick your poison, tell me what you doin'
Everybody gon' respect the shooter
But the one in front of the gun lives forever
(The one in front of the gun, forever)
And I been hustlin' all day, this-a-way, that-a-way
Through canals and alleyways, just to say
Money trees is the perfect place for shade
And that's just how I feel, nah, nah
A dollar might just fuck your main bitch
That's just how I feel, nah
A dollar might say fuck them niggas that you came with
That's just how I feel, nah, nah
A dollar might just make that lane switch
That's just how I feel, nah
A dollar might turn to a million and we all rich
That's just how I feel
[Bridge: Anna Wise]
Be the last one out to get this dough? No way
Love one of you bucket-headed hoes? No way
Hit the streets, then we break the code? No way
Hit the brakes when they on patrol? No way
Be the last one out to get this dough? No way
Love one of you bucket-headed hoes? No way
Hit the streets, then we break the code? No way
Hit the brakes when they on patrol? No way
[Verse 3: Jay Rock]
'Magine Rock up in them projects where them niggas pick your pockets
Santa Claus don't miss them stockings, liquors spillin', pistols poppin'
Bakin' soda, yola whippin', ain't no turkey on Thanksgivin'
My homeboy just domed a nigga, I just hope the Lord forgive him
Pots with cocaine residue, every day, I'm hustlin'
What else is a thug to do when you eatin' cheese from the government?
Gotta provide for my daughter 'nem, get the fuck up out my way, bish
Got that drum and I got them bands just like a parade, bish
Drop that work up in the bushes, hope them boys don't see my stash
If they do, tell the truth, this the last time you might see my ass
From the gardens where the grass ain't cut, them serpents lurkin', blood
Bitches sellin' pussy, niggas sellin' drugs, but it's all good
Broken promises, steal your watch and tell you what time it is
Take your J's and tell you to kick it where a Foot Locker is
In the streets with a heater under my dungarees
Dreams of me gettin' shaded under a money tree
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
It go Halle Berry or hallelujah
Pick your poison, tell me what you doin'
Everybody gon' respect the shooter
But the one in front of the gun lives forever
(The one in front of the gun, forever)
And I been hustlin' all day, this-a-way, that-a-way
Through canals and alleyways, just to say
Money trees is the perfect place for shade
And that's just how I feel

[Skit: Paula Duckworth & Kenneth Duckworth]
Kendrick, just bring my car back, man, I, I called in for another appointment
I figured you weren't gonna be back here on time anyway, look
Shit, shit, I just wanna get out the house, man
This man is on one, he feelin' good than a motherfucker
Shit, I'm tryna get my thing goin' too (Girl, I want your body)
I'm going over to Merlin house, just bring my car back (I want your body)
Shit, he faded, he feelin' good, look, listen to him
'Cause you got a big ol' fat ass
Girl, girl, I want your body
I want your body, 'cause of that big ol' fat ass, girl
See, he high as hell (I want your body, 'cause of that big ol'—)
Shit, he ain't even trippin' off them dominoes no more, just bring the car back
Did somebody say dominoes?

Title: DNA.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-dna-lyrics
Song Description: On DNA., Kendrick Lamar adopts multiple viewpoints; celebrating, critiquing, and exploring his black heritage and culture. In the music video, Kendrick and actor Don Cheadle appear to trade bars, engaging in an argument using the songs lyrics during an interrogation scene. We also learn that DNA stands for Dead Nigger Association.

Lamar is wearing a traditional Kung Fu uniform throughout the piece. In an interview with Pitchfork, Don Cheadle confirmed that he inadvertently inspired the Kung Fu Kenny persona. Cheadle portrayed a Chinese-speaking martial artist named Kenny in the 2001 action-comedy sequel Rush Hour 2.



At the beginning of the video, the song YAH. can be heard echoing abovealmost as if it is playing in Kendricks head as the camera pans down. YAH. comes directly after DNA. on DAMN.s tracklist.

Following his initial encounter with Cheadle, who seems to be portraying a law enforcement figure, the ending of BLOOD. suddenly begins playing; when Cheadle turns on the lie-detector device, he begins convulsing, almost as if in a trance. This snippet comes from the video of Geraldo Rivera criticizing Kendricks lyrics on Alright, one of his most successful singles. The music video also contains snippets from Hood Politics, another song from Lamars March 2015 award-winning album, To Pimp A Butterfly.

Lastly, the songs second verse samples a different segment of the same Fox News clip from BLOOD. and its worth noting that BLOOD. precedes DNA. on the album.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
I got, I got, I got, I got—
Loyalty, got royalty inside my DNA
Cocaine quarter piece, got war and peace inside my DNA
I got power, poison, pain, and joy inside my DNA
I got hustle, though, ambition flow inside my DNA
I was born like this, since one like this, immaculate conception
I transform like this, perform like this, was Yeshua new weapon
I don't contemplate, I meditate, then off your fucking head
This that put-the-kids-to-bed
This that I got, I got, I got, I got—
Realness, I just kill shit ’cause it's in my DNA
I got millions, I got riches buildin' in my DNA
I got dark, I got evil that rot inside my DNA
I got off, I got troublesome heart inside my DNA
I just win again, then win again like Wimbledon, I serve
Yeah, that’s him again, the sound that engine in is like a bird
You see fireworks and Corvette tire skrrt the boulevard
I know how you work, I know just who you are
See, you's a, you's a, you's a—
Bitch, your hormones prolly switch inside your DNA
Problem is, all that sucker shit inside your DNA
Daddy prolly snitched, heritage inside your DNA
Backbone don't exist, born outside a jellyfish, I gauge
See, my pedigree most definitely don't tolerate the front
Shit I've been through prolly offend you, this is Paula's oldest son
I know murder, conviction
Burners, boosters, burglars, ballers, dead, redemption
Scholars, fathers dead with kids and
I wish I was fed forgiveness
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, soldier’s DNA (I’m a soldier's DNA)
Born inside the beast, my expertise checked out in second grade
When I was nine, on cell, motel, we didn’t have nowhere to stay
At twenty-nine, I've done so well, hit cartwheel in my estate
And I'm gon' shine like I’m supposed to, antisocial extrovert
And excellent mean the extra work
And absentness what the fuck you heard
And pessimists never struck my nerve
And Nazareth gonna plead his case
The reason my power's here on earth
Salute the truth, when the prophet say
You might also like[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar & Geraldo Rivera]
I-I got loyalty, got royalty inside my DNA
This is why I say that hip hop has done more damage to young African Americans than racism in recent years
I-I got loyalty, got royalty inside my DNA
I live a better life, I'm rollin' several dice, fuck your life
I-I got loyalty, got royalty inside my DNA
I live a be-, fuck your life
Five, four, three, two, one
This is my heritage, all I'm inheritin'
Money and power, the mecca of marriages
[Verse 2]
Tell me somethin'
You motherfuckers can't tell me nothin'
I'd rather die than to listen to you
My DNA not for imitation
Your DNA an abomination
This how it is when you in the Matrix
Dodgin' bullets, reapin' what you sow
And stackin' up the footage, livin' on the go
And sleepin' in a villa
Sippin' from a Grammy, walkin' in the buildin'
Diamond in the ceilin', marble on the floors
Beach inside the window, peekin' out the window
Baby in the pool, godfather goals
Only Lord knows I've been goin' hammer
Dodgin' paparazzi, freakin' through the cameras
Eat at Four Daughters, Brock wearin' sandals
Yoga on a Monday, stretchin' to Nirvana
Watchin' all the snakes, curvin' all the fakes
Phone never on, I don't conversate
I don't compromise, I just penetrate
Sex, money, murder, these are the breaks
These are the times, level number nine
Look up in the sky, ten is on the way
Sentence on the way, killings on the way
Motherfucker, I got winners on the way
You ain't shit without a body on your belt
You ain't shit without a ticket on your plate
You ain't sick enough to pull it on yourself
You ain't rich enough to hit the lot and skate
Tell me when destruction gonna be my fate
Gonna be your fate, gonna be our faith
Peace to the world, let it rotate
Sex, money, murder our DNA
[Video Outro]

Title: XXX.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-xxx-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick teams up with rock legends U2 on XXX., which delves deeper into the political and religious themes heard throughout DAMN. In an August 2017 interview with Rolling Stone, Kendrick described how this song came together:

We had a [different] record we were supposed to be doing together. He sent it over, I laid some ideas to it, and we didnt know where it was going. I just happened to have an album coming out, so I just asked [Bono], Yo, would you do me this honor of letting me use this record, use this idea that I want to put together because Im hearing a certain type of 808, a certain drum to it. And he was open to it.

The track itself seems to be a transitional moment on the album. Going with the original album play-through or the backwards play theory, in his path of wickedness, Kendrick begins to question the hypocritical ways of America after setting aside his Godly ways and overcoming fear. However, on his path to weakness, Kendrick continues on after LOVE., where he expresses his feeling towards his significant other, and, on this track, Kendrick expresses what he would do to protect his woman as well as his immediate family, before giving his life to God.

In the first verse, Kendrick begins by addressing moral ambiguity, noting that even the best of us are capable of evil if the conditions are right. Kendrick brags about his accomplishments on the streets before a friend calls him for advice on the devastating death of his sonthe usually-meditative Kendrick pushes him to take violent revenge. The second verse provides the worldly context for this violence, continuing the nihilistic themes found on PRIDE.

In an excellent piece of criticism, Steven Hyden notes that the lyrics of XXX. grapple with spiritual dislocation in America, with Old Testament overtonessomething U2 has been doing for three decades.

Its also worth noting that Nardwuar the Human Serviette unintentionally predicted this collaboration back in March of 2012, before good kid, m.A.A.d. citys release, when he interviewed Kendrick at the SXSW Festival in Austin, Texas. Watch his response when asked if he would ever like to have a sleepover with Bono:

https://youtu.be/6s5vlQdQp4s?t=10m27s

YouTuber Justin Hunte goes into depth in this video about XXX. and how Kendrick is representing his generation. He breaks down how the last verse of the song calls out America for its hyprocrisy in these lines:

You overnight the big rifles, then tell Fox to be scared of us
Gang members or terrorists, et cetera, et cetera
Americas reflections of me, thats what a mirror does
Lyrics:

[Part I]

[Intro: Bēkon & Kid Capri]
America
God bless you if it's good to you
America, please take my hand
Can you help me underst—
New Kung Fu Kenny
[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
Throw a steak off the ark to a pool full of sharks, he'll take it
Leave him in the wilderness with a sworn nemesis, he'll make it (He'll make it)
Take the gratitude from him, I bet he'll show you somethin', woah (Woah)
I chip a nigga lil' bit of nothin'
I chip a nigga lil' bit of nothin'
I chip a nigga lil' bit of nothin'
I chip a nigga, then throw the blower in his lap
Walk myself to the court like, "Bitch, I did that X-rated"
Johnny don't wanna go to school no more, no more
Johnny said books ain't cool no more (No more)
Johnny wanna be a rapper like his big cousin
Johnny caught a body yesterday out hustlin'
God bless America, you know we all love him
Yesterday, I got a call, like, from my dog, like 101
Said they killed his only son because of insufficient funds
He was sobbin', he was mobbin', way belligerent and drunk
Talkin' out his head, philosophin' on what the Lord had done
He said, "K-Dot, can you pray for me? It been a fucked up day for me
I know that you anointed, show me how to overcome"
He was lookin' for some closure, hopin' I could bring him closer
To the spiritual, my spirit do know better, but I told him
"I can't sugarcoat the answer for you, this is how I feel
If somebody kill my son, that mean somebody gettin' killed
Tell me what you do for love, loyalty, and passion of
All the memories collected, moments you could never touch
I wait in front a nigga's spot and watch him hit his block
I catch a nigga leavin' service if that's all I got
I chip a nigga, then throw the blower in his lap
Walk myself to the court like, "Bitch, I did that"
Ain't no Black Power when your baby killed by a coward
I can't even keep the peace, don't you fuck with one of ours
It be murder in the street, it be bodies in the hour
Ghetto bird be on the street, paramedics on the dial
Let somebody touch my mama, touch my sister, touch my woman
Touch my daddy, touch my niece, touch my nephew, touch my brother
You should chip a nigga, then throw the blower in his lap
Matter fact, I'm 'bout to speak at this convention, call you back"
You might also like[Segue: Kendrick Lamar]
Alright, kids, we're gon' talk about gun control (Pray for me)
Damn

[Part II]

[Chorus: Bono]
It's not a place
This country is to me a sound
Of drum and bass
You close your eyes to look around

[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
Hail Mary, Jesus, and Joseph
The great American flag is wrapped and dragged with explosives
Compulsive disorder, sons and daughters
Barricaded blocks and borders, look what you taught us
It's murder on my street, your street, back streets, Wall Street
Corporate offices, banks, employees, and bosses with
Homicidal thoughts, Donald Trump's in office
We lost Barack and promised to never doubt him again
But is America honest or do we bask in sin?
Pass the gin, I mix it with American blood
Then bash him in, you Crippin' or you married to Blood?
I'll ask again, oops, accident
It's nasty when you set us up then roll the dice, then bet us up
You overnight the big rifles, then tell Fox to be scared of us
Gang members or terrorists, et cetera, et cetera
America's reflections of me, that's what a mirror does
[Chorus: Bono]
It's not a place
This country is to me a sound
Of drum and bass
You close your eyes to look ar—

Title: meet the grahams
Release Date: May 3, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-meet-the-grahams-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick Lamar kicked off May 3, 2024 with the surprise release of 6:16 in LA, a diss track that followed his April 30 track euphoria and preceded a third Drake response14 hours later, Drake would upload Family Matters to YouTube, which Kendrick then used as fuel to unleash the sinister six-minute track, meet the grahams.

As the title implies, Kendrick sends a personal message to each member of the Graham family. He exposes scathing allegations about Drake, many of which were never previously reported. The most notable allegation is that Drake supposedly has an 11-year-old daughter and unspecified other children. Drake made light of the allegation to discredit it with an Instagram Story post shortly after the track dropped.

Beyond addressing the Grahams, Kendrick attacks other aspects of Drakes character. He claims Drizzy is addicted to prescription pillsperhaps the ones displayed on the songs covercompares him to disgraced movie producer Harvey Weinstein, claims he has sex offenders on his OVO Sound payroll, and that he is a sexual deviant.

This tracks cover art was removed for the streaming release, seemingly due to HIPAA privacy laws that protect individuals' medical records. The original cover art appears to be a zoomed-out version of the artwork that accompanied 6:16 in LA, displaying items rumored to belong to Drake that were stolen from his fathers suitcase, according to a close source; namely, DJ Akademiks. Among these items are Ozempic and Zolpidem pills, as well as receipts of outrageous jewelry purchases. These items are resting on a multi-colored button-up T-shirt depicting a cartoon dog urinating on a red fire hydrant. Collectively, the image provides some proof that Kendrick really did have inside information, as previously implied on 6:16 in LA and euphoria.

The shirt itself might also coincide with the name of Drakes October 2023 album, For All The Dogs, which features J. Cole on First Person Shooter trading disses directed at K-Dot. Furthermore, this could be a subtle allusion to longtime rumors that T.I. let his friend urinate on Drake, according to a verse on October 2020s We Did It Big:

So drunk in L.A., end up pissin' on Drake, shit
Fuck it, thats still my brother

This is alluded to in the first verse, when Kendrick address Drakes son, Adonis:

Never let a man piss on your leg, son
Either you die right there or pop that man in the head, son
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
Dear Adonis
I'm sorry that that man is your father, let me be honest
It takes a man to be a man, your dad is not responsive
I look at him and wish your grandpa woulda wore a condom
I'm sorry that you gotta grow up and then stand behind him
Life is hard, I know, the challenge is always gon' beat us home
Sometimes our parents make mistakes that affect us until we grown
And you're a good kid that need good leadership
Let me be your mentor since your daddy don't teach you shit
Never let a man piss on your leg, son
Either you die right there or pop that man in the head, son
Never fall in the escort business, that's bad religion
Please remember, you could be a bitch even if you got bitches
Never code-switch, whether right or wrong, you're a Black man
Even if it don't benefit your goals, do some push-ups, get some discipline
Don't cut them corners like your daddy did, fuck what Ozempic did
Don't pay to play with them Brazilians, get a gym membership
Understand, no throwin' rocks and hidin' hands, that's law
Don't be ashamed 'bout who you wit', that's how he treat your moms
Don't have a kid to hide a kid to hide again, be sure
Five percent will comprehend, but ninety-five is lost
Be proud of who you are, your strength come from within
Lotta superstars that's real, but your daddy ain't one of them
And you nothing like him, you'll carry yourself as king
Can't understand me right now? Just play this when you eighteen
You might also like[Verse 2]
Dear Sandra
Your son got some habits, I hope you don't undermine them
Especially with all the girls that's hurt inside this climate
You a woman, so you know how it feels to be in alignment
With emotion, hopin' a man can see you and not be blinded
Dear Dennis, you gave birth to a master manipulator
Even usin' you to prove who he is is a huge favor
I think you should ask for more paper, and more paper
And more, uh, more paper
I'm blamin' you for all his gamblin' addictions
Psychopath intuition, the man that like to play victim
You raised a horrible fuckin' person, the nerve of you, Dennis
Sandra, sit down, what I'm about to say is heavy, now listen
Mm-mm, your son's a sick man with sick thoughts, I think niggas like him should die
Him and Weinstein should get fucked up in a cell for the rest their life
He hates Black women, hypersexualizes 'em with kinks of a nympho fetish
Grew facial hair because he understood bein' a beard just fit him better
He got sex offenders on ho-VO that he keep on a monthly allowance
A child should never be compromised and he keepin' his child around them
And we gotta raise our daughters knowin' there's predators like him lurkin'
Fuck a rap battle, he should die so all of these women can live with a purpose
I been in this industry twelve years, I'ma tell y'all one lil' secret
It's some weird shit goin' on and some of these artists be here to police it
They be streamlinin' victims all inside of they home and callin' 'em tender
Then leak videos of themselves to further push their agendas
To any woman that be playin' his music, know that you're playin' your sister
Or better, you're sellin' your niece to the weirdos, not the good ones
Katt Williams said, "Get you the truth," so I'ma get mines
The Embassy 'bout to get raided too, it's only a matter of time
Ayy, LeBron, keep the family away, hey, Curry, keep the family away
To anybody that embody the love for their kids, keep the family away
They lookin' at you too if you standin' by him, keep the family away
I'm lookin' to shoot through any pervert that lives, keep the family safe
[Verse 3]
Dear baby girl
I'm sorry that your father not active inside your world
He don't commit to much but his music, yeah, that's for sure
He a narcissist, misogynist, livin' inside his songs
Try destroyin' families rather than takin' care of his own
Should be teachin' you time tables or watchin' Frozen with you
Or at your eleventh birthday singin' poems with you
Instead, he be in Turks payin' for sex and poppin' Percs, examples that you don't deserve
I wanna tell you that you're loved, you're brave, you're kind
You got a gift to change the world, and could change your father's mind
'Cause our children is the future, but he lives inside confusion
Money's always been illusion, but that's the life he's used to
His father prolly didn't claim him neither
History do repeats itself, sometimes it don't need a reason
But I would like to say it's not your fault that he's hidin' another child
Give him grace, this the reason I made Mr. Morale
So our babies like you can cope later
Give you some confidence to go through somethin', it's hope later
I never wanna hear you chase a man 'cause it's feral behavior
Sittin' in the club with sugar daddies for validation
You need to know that love is eternity and trumps all pain
I'll tell you who your father is, just play this song when it rains
Yes, he's a hitmaker, songwriter, superstar, right
And a fuckin' deadbeat that should never say "more life"
Meet the Grahams
[Verse 4]
Dear Aubrey
I know you probably thinkin' I wanted to crash your party
But truthfully, I don't have a hatin' bone in my body
This supposed to be a good exhibition within the game
But you fucked up the moment you called out my family's name
Why you had to stoop so low to discredit some decent people?
Guess integrity is lost when the metaphors doesn't reach you
And I like to understand 'cause your house was never a home
Thirty-seven, but you showin' up as a seven-year-old
You got gamblin' problems, drinkin' problems, pill-poppin' and spendin' problems
Bad with money, whorehouse
Solicitin' women problems, therapy's a lovely start
But I suggest some ayahuasca, strip the ego from the bottom
I try to empathize with you 'cause I know that you ain't been through nothin'
Crave entitlement, but wanna be liked so bad that it's puzzlin'
No dominance, let's recap moments when you didn't fit in
No secret handshakes with your friend
No culture cachet to binge, just disrespectin' your mother
Identity's on the fence, don't know which family will love ya
The skin that you livin' in is compromised in personas
Can't channel your masculine even when standin' next to a woman
You a body shamer, you gon' hide them baby mamas, ain't ya?
You embarrassed of 'em, that's not right, that ain't how mama raised us
Take that mask off, I wanna see what's under them achievements
Why believe you? You never gave us nothin' to believe in
'Cause you lied about religious views, you lied about your surgery
You lied about your accent and your past tense, all is perjury
You lied about your ghostwriters, you lied about your crew members
They all pussy, you lied on 'em, I know they all got you in 'em
You lied about your son, you lied about your daughter, huh
You lied about them other kids that's out there hopin' that you come
You lied about the only artist that can offer you some help
Fuck a rap battle, this a long life battle with yourself116Embed

Title: Bitch, Don’t Kill My Vibe
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-bitch-dont-kill-my-vibe-lyrics
Song Description: The content of this song doesnt advance the narrative of the album. It is told from the perspective of present-day Kendrick Lamar, who isnt happy with the state of rap music, and strives to be different by maintaining his vision. He also discusses his career so far and how it has changed his life, for better or worse.

Kendrick explained this song in an interview with Complex saying:

Thats really one big subliminal at everybody getting mixed in a situation where everyone wants to have creative control. Thats the vibe I wanted to kill. Thats why I threw that record out. If you listen to some of the words, its real intricate, but it makes sense.

This song samples Danish electronic group Boom Clap Bachelors 2008 tune Tiden Flyver.

Originally this song was supposed to feature Lady Gaga. After the song was officially released, Gaga posted the original version on Twitter. Kendrick explained to Complex why Gaga didnt make the album saying:

We had to meet the deadline for the pre-order date. Thats just the business side coming through and messing things up.

Gaga was also supposed to work with Kendrick on the song Partynauseous, but that was never released either. The female vocals on the song are instead performed by Anna Wise.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Kendrick Lamar]
I am a sinner
Who's probably gonna sin again
Lord, forgive me, Lord, forgive me
Things I don't understand
Sometimes, I need to be alone
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
I can feel your energy from two planets away
I got my drink, I got my music, I would share it, but, today, I'm yellin'
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Look inside of my soul and you can find gold and maybe get rich
Look inside of your soul and you can find out it never exist
I can feel the changes
I can feel a new life, I always knew life can be dangerous
I can say that I like a challenge and you tell me it's painless
You don't know what pain is
How can I paint this picture when the colorblind is hangin' witcha?
Fell on my face and awoke with a scar, another mistake livin' deep in my heart
Wear it on top of my sleeve in a flick, I can admit that it did look like yours
Why you resent every makin' of his? Tell me your purpose is petty again
But even a small lighter can burn a bridge, even a small lighter can burn a bridge

[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I can feel the changes
I can feel the new people 'round me just wanna be famous
You can see that my city found me, then put me on stages
To me, that's amazin'
To you, that's a quick check, with all disrespect, let me say this
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Kendrick Lamar]
I am a sinner
Who's probably gonna sin again
Lord, forgive me, Lord, forgive me
Things I don't understand
Sometimes, I need to be alone
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
I can feel your energy from two planets away
I got my drink, I got my music, I would share it, but, today, I'm yellin'
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm tryna keep it alive and not compromise the feelin' we love
You're tryna keep it deprived and only cosign what radio does
And I'm lookin' right past ya
We live in a world, we live in a world on two different axles
You live in a world, you livin' behind the mirror
I know what you're scared of, the feeling of feeling emotions inferior
This shit is vital, I know you had to, this shit is vital, I know you had to
Die in a pitiful vain, tell me a watch and a chain is way more believable
Give me a feasible gain, rather a seasonal name, I'll let the people know
This is somethin' you can blame on yourself, you can remain stuck in a box
I'ma break out and then hide every lock, I'ma break out and then hide every lock

[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I can feel the changes
I can feel the new people 'round me just wanna be famous
You can see that my city found me, then put me on stages
To me, that's amazin'
To you, that's a quick check, with all disrespect, let me say this
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Kendrick Lamar]
I am a sinner
Who's probably gonna sin again
Lord, forgive me, Lord, forgive me
Things I don't understand
Sometimes, I need to be alone
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
I can feel your energy from two planets away
I got my drink, I got my music, I would share it, but, today, I'm yellin'
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Anna Wise]
Bitch, don't kill my vibe
You ain't heard the coast like this in a long time, don't you see that long line?
And they waitin' on Kendrick like the first and the fifteenth
Threes in the air, I can see you are in sync
Hide your feelings, hide your feelings, now, what you better do
I'll take your girlfriend then put that pussy on the pedestal
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Anna Wise]
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Walk out the door and they scream, "It's alive"
My New Year's resolution is to stop all the pollution
Talk too motherfuckin' much, I got my drink, I got my music
I say, bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
[Skit]
K-Dot, get in the car, nigga
Come on, we finna roll out
Nigga, I got a pack of Blacks and a beat CD
Get your freestyles ready706Embed

Title: King Kunta
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-king-kunta-lyrics
Song Description: Kunta Kinte is the main character in the novel Roots: The Saga of an American Family by Alex Haley. Haleys said that Kunta Kinte was his own great, great, great grandfather and the character is based on a mix of fact and fiction. Kinte refused to accept the name Toby that slave masters tried to give him and his right foot was cut off following his attempts to escape the plantation he was enslaved on.



Kendrick explained what influenced this song to NME:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vm_Xb9c6__Q
Lyrics:

[Produced by Sounwave; Additional production by Terrace Martin]
[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
I got a bone to pick
I don't want you monkey-mouth motherfuckers
Sittin' in my throne again
Ayy, ayy, nigga, what's happenin'?
K-Dot back in the hood, nigga!
I'm mad (He mad!), but I ain't stressin'
True friends, one question

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
Kunta, black man taking no losses, oh yeah
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
When you got the yams—(What's the yams?)

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
The yam is the power that be
You can smell it when I'm walkin' down the street
(Oh yes, we can, oh yes, we can)
I can dig rappin', but a rapper with a ghostwriter?
What the fuck happened? (Oh no!)
I swore I wouldn't tell, but most of y'all sharing bars
Like you got the bottom bunk in a two-man cell (A two-man cell)
Something's in the water (Something's in the water)
And if I gotta brown-nose for some gold
Then I'd rather be a bum than a motherfuckin' baller (Oh yeah!)
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
King Kunta, black man taking no losses, oh yeah
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
When you got the yams—(What's the yams?)

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
The yam brought it out of Richard Pryor
Manipulated Bill Clinton with desires
Twenty-four-seven, three-sixty-five days times two
I was contemplatin' gettin' off stage
Just to go back to the hood, see my enemy, and say… (Oh yeah)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
Kunta, black man taking no losses, oh yeah
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
You goat-mouth mammyfucker
I was gonna kill a couple rappers, but they did it to themselves
Everybody's suicidal, they ain't even need my help
This shit is elementary, I'll probably go to jail
If I shoot at your identity and bounce to the left
Stuck a flag in my city, everybody's screamin', "Compton!"
I should probably run for mayor when I'm done, to be honest
And I put that on my momma and my baby boo too
Twenty million walkin' out the court buildin', woo-woo!
Aw, yeah, fuck the judge
I made it past twenty-five, and there I was
A little nappy-headed nigga with the world behind him
Life ain't shit but a fat vagina
Screamin', "Annie, are you okay? Annie, are you okay?"
Limo tinted with the gold plates
Straight from the bottom, this the belly of the beast
From a peasant to a prince to a motherfuckin' king (Oh yeah)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'—*Gunshot*
By the time you hear the next pop
The funk shall be within you—*Gunshot*
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
King Kunta, black man taking no losses, oh yeah
Bitch, where you when I was walkin'?
Now I run the game, got the whole world talkin'
King Kunta, everybody wanna cut the legs off him
[Outro: Kendrick Lamar & Whitney Alford]
Funk, funk, funk, funk, funk, funk, funk, funk, funk, funk, funk
We want the funk
We want the funk
Now if I give you the funk, you gon' take it?
We want the funk
Now if I give you the funk, you gon' take it?
We want the funk
Now if I give you the funk, you gon' take it?
We want the funk
Do you want the funk?
We want the funk
Do you want the funk?
We want the funk
Now if I give you the funk, you gon' take it?
We want the funk

[Poem: Kendrick Lamar]
I remember you was conflicted, misusing your influence2KEmbed

Title: Poetic Justice
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-poetic-justice-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick explained Poetic Justice in a 2012 interview with Complex magazine, saying:

If you listen to Poetic Justice, its a song about a chick saying these legs are poems. On the back end of that, is really the Sherane joint, so its a dedication song for Sherane. And thats going into good kid and m.A.A.d city,' which completes the story.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Every second, every minute, man, I swear that she can get it
Say if you a bad bitch, put your hands up high
Hands up high, hands up high
Tell 'em dim the lights down right now, put me in the mood
I'm talkin' 'bout dark room, perfume
Go, go

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
(In the thundering rain)
I recognize your fragrance, hol' up, you ain't never gotta say shit, uh
And I know your taste is a little bit, mmm, high maintenance, uh
Everybody else basic, you live life on an everyday basis
With poetic justice, poetic justice
If I told you that a flower bloomed in a dark room, would you trust it?
I mean, I write poems in these songs dedicated to you when
You're in the mood for empathy, it's blood in my pen
Better yet, where your friends and 'em? I really wanna know you all
I really wanna show you off, fuck that
Pour up plenty of champagne, cold nights when you curse this name
You called up your girlfriends and y'all curled in that little bitty Range, I heard that
She wanna go and party, she wanna go and party
Nigga, don't approach her with that Atari
Nigga, that ain't good game, homie, sorry
They say conversation rule a nation, I can tell
But I could never right my wrongs 'less I write it down for real, PS
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Janet Jackson]
(An-an-an-an-anytime)
You can get it, you can get it, you can get it, you can get it (And any place)
And I know just, know just, know just, know just, know just what you want
Poetic justice, put it in a song, alright
(An-an-an-an-anytime)
You can get it, you can get it, you can get it, you can get it (And any place)
And I know just, know just, know just, know just, know just what you want
Poetic justice, put it in a song, alright
[Verse 2: Drake]
(In the thundering rain)
I really hope you play this 'cause, oh, girl, you test my patience
With all these seductive photographs and all these one-off vacations you've been takin'
Clearly a lot for me to take in, it don't make sense
Young East African girl, you too busy fuckin' with your other man
I was tryna put you on game, put you on a plane
Take you and your mama to the motherland, I could do it
Maybe one day, when you figure out you're gonna need someone
When you figure out it's alright here in the city and you don't run from where we come from
That sound like poetic justice, poetic justice
You were so new to this life, but goddamn, you got adjusted
I mean, I write poems in these songs, dedicated to the fun sex
Your natural hair and your soft skin and your big ass in that sundress, ooh
Good God, what you doin' that walk for?
When I see that thing move, I just wish we would fight less and we would talk more
And they say communication save relations, I can tell
But I can never right my wrongs unless I write 'em down for real, PS
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Janet Jackson]
(An-an-an-an-anytime)
You can get it, you can get it, you can get it, you can get it (And any place)
And I know just, know just, know just, know just, know just what you want
Poetic justice, put it in a song, alright
(An-an-an-an-anytime)
You can get it, you can get it, you can get it, you can get it (And any place)
And I know just, know just, know just, know just, know just what you want
Poetic justice, put it in a song, alright

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
(In the thundering rain)
Every time I write these words, they become a taboo
Makin' sure my punctuation curve, every letter here's true
Livin' my life in the margin and that metaphor was proof
I'm talkin' poetic justice, poetic justice
If I told you that a flower bloomed in a dark room, would you trust it?
I mean, you need to hear this
Love is not just a verb, it's you lookin' in the mirror
Love is not just a verb, it's you lookin' for it, maybe, call me crazy, we can both be insane
A fatal attraction is common, and what we have common is pain
I mean, you need to hear this
Love is not just a verb and I can see power steerin'
Sex drive when you swerve, I want that interference, it's coherent, I can hear it, mhm
That's your heartbeat, it either caught me or it called me, mhm
Read slow and you'll find gold mines in these lines
Sincerely, yours truly, and right before you go blind, PS
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Janet Jackson]
(An-an-an-an-anytime)
You can get it, you can get it, you can get it, you can get it (And any place)
And I know just, know just, know just, know just, know just what you want
Poetic justice, put it in a song
[Skit]
I'm gon' ask you one more time, homie
Where is you from? Or it is a problem
Ayy, ayy, ayy, ayy, ayy, ask him if he over here for Sherane
Ayy, you over here for Sherane, homie?
I don't care who this nigga over here for
If he don't tell me where he from, it's a wrap, I'm sorry
Hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up, we gon' do it like this, okay?
I'ma tell you where I'm from, okay?
You gon' tell me where you from, okay?
Or, or, or where your grandma stay
Where your mama stay, or where your daddy stay, okay?
Fuck all this talkin'
As a matter fact, get out the van, homie
Get out the car 'fore I snatch you out that motherfucker, homie417Embed

Title: LOVE.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-love-lyrics
Song Description: LOVE. finds Kendrick Lamar musing on the woman in his life; presumably his fianc Whitney Alford, whom he has been in a relationship with since his high school days. Kendrick uses this ballad to ask the essential questions to his partner to solidify the most important aspect of their relationship: love.

Kendrick has kept his relationship with Alford under wraps for a majority of his career. It wasnt until 2016 that word got out that he was engaged.



The title, theme, and smooth mood of LOVE completely juxtaposes the preceding song, LUST which is more abrasive. The titles themselves are complete contrasts, as the concept of love is the deep intimate emotion one feels for another, while lust encompasses all the physical and sexual desires. Lust is also one of the seven deadly sins.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Damn, love or lust
Damn, all of us
[Chorus: Zacari & Kendrick Lamar]
Give me a run for my money
There is nobody, no one to outrun me
(Another world premiere)
So give me a run for my money
Sippin' bubbly, feelin’ lovely, livin' lovely
Just love me
I wanna be with you, ayy, I wanna be with
Just love me, just love me, just love
I wanna be with you, ayy, I wanna be with
Love me
I wanna be with you
Love me, just love me

[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar & Zacari]
If I didn't ride blade on curb, would you still love me?
If I minimized my net worth, would you still love me?
Keep it a hundred, I’d rather you trust me than to love me
Keep it a whole one hund', don't got you, I got nothin'

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Ayy, I got somethin', ayy
Hol' up, we gon' function, ayy
No assumptions, ayy
Feelin' like Tyson with it
Knock it out twice, I’m with it
Only for the night, I’m kiddin'
Only for life, yeah, homie for life, yeah
Only for life, let’s get it
Hit that shoulder lean
I know what comin' over me
Backstroke oversea
I know what you need
Already on ten, all money come in
All feeling go out, this feeling don't drought
This party won't end
You might also like[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar & Zacari]
If I didn’t ride blade on curb, would you still love me?
If I minimized my net worth, would you still love me?
Keep it a hundred, I'd rather you trust me than to love me
Keep it a whole one hund', don't got you, I got nothin' (Uh, uh)
[Chorus: Zacari & Kendrick Lamar]
Give me a run for my money
There is nobody, no one to outrun me
So give me a run for my money
Sippin' bubbly, feelin' lovely, livin' lovely
Just love me
I wanna be with you, ayy, I wanna be with
Just love me, just love me, just love
I wanna be with you, ayy, I wanna be with
Love me
I wanna be with you
Love me, just love me

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar & Zacari]
I'm on the way
We ain't got no time to waste
Poppin' your gum on the way (Love me)
Am I in the way?
I don't wan' pressure you none
I want your blessing today (Love me)
Oh, by the way, open the door by the way
Told you that I'm on the way (Love me)
I'm on the way, I know connection is vague
Pick up the phone for me, babe
Damn it, we jammin'
Bad attitude from yo' nanny
Curves and your hips from yo' mammy
Remember Gardena, I took the studio Camry
I know Top will be mad at me
I had to do it, I want your body, your music
I bought the big one to prove it
Look what you made
Told you that I'm on the way
I'm like a exit away, yep
[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar & Zacari]
If I didn't ride blade on curb, would you still love me?
(If I didn't ride blade on curb, would you still)
If I minimized my net worth, would you still love me?
(If I minimized my net worth, would you still)
Keep it a hundred, I'd rather you trust me than to love me
Keep it a whole one hund', don't got you, I got nothin' (Uh, uh)
[Chorus: Zacari & Kendrick Lamar]
Give me a run for my money
There is nobody, no one to outrun me
So give me a run for my money
Sippin' bubbly, feelin' lovely, livin' lovely
Just love me
I wanna be with you, ayy, I wanna be with
Just love me, just love me, just love me
I wanna be with you, ayy, I wanna be with
Love me
I wanna be with you
Love me, just love me278Embed

Title: Alright
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-alright-lyrics
Song Description: Alright provides a moment of hope amid To Pimp a Butterflys battle to find higher purpose. After u  where Kendrick lays out his burdens  Alright responds by detailing how Kendrick means to escape his troubles. By trusting in God, Kendrick is able to look past his failures and have confidence that everything will be okay  we gon be alright.

On the surface, the motif is optimistic and universal, but the message is driven by specific pain and struggle. Awareness regarding the disproportionate police brutality against Black people has left many wondering if the US has made any progress toward racial equality. Rather than despair, Alright assures listeners that, through solidarity, we gon be alright.

The mantra made a strong impact in the 2015 summer of protest, as Black Lives Matter activists all over America chanted we gon be alright to mourn the countless black people killed by police in 2015 and provide hope for a better future.



Some took to twitter suggesting Alright as a new black national anthem similar to Lift Every Voice and Sing and We Shall Overcome  also songs of hope emerging out of periods of despair.



At the 2015 BET awards, Kendrick performed Alright on top of a police car, further highlighting the songs purpose as a protest against police brutality. The powerful imagery and anti-police lyrics proved to be controversial when Fox Newss Geraldo Rivera said:

This is why I say that hip-hop has done more damage to young African-Americans than racism in recent years. This is exactly the wrong message.

In a video interview with TMZ Kendrick responded, driving the conversation back to the  problem of police brutality instead of allowing Rivera and others to change the topic to hip-hop, by saying:

 the senseless acts of killings of these young boys out there  This is reality, this is my world, this is what I talk about in my music. You cant delude that. Me being on a cop car, thats a performance piece after these senseless acts  Hip-hop is not the problem. Our reality is the problem of the situation. This is our music. This is us expressing ourselves.

To give his message context, Kendrick worked with director Colin Tilley to create an extended music video for Alright  released June 30, 2015.



On February 15, 2016 at the 58th Grammy Awards, Kendrick Lamar took home five Grammys for his work on To Pimp a Butterfly. Alright was nominated for four awards, ultimately winning both Best Rap Performance and Best Rap Song.

This song can be seen as the person tired of all the crying and feeling bad for themselves. They are now ready to take action and find a solution.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Pharrell Williams & Sounwave]
[Directed by Colin Tilley]
[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Alls my life, I has to fight, nigga
Alls my life, I—
Hard times like, "Yah"
Bad trips like, "Yah"
Nazareth
I'm fucked up, homie, you fucked up
But if God got us, then we gon' be alright
[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
We gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Huh? We gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh, and when I wake up
I recognize you're looking at me for the pay cut
But homicide be looking at you from the face down
What MAC-11 even boom with the bass down?
Schemin', and let me tell you 'bout my life
Painkillers only put me in the twilight
Where pretty pussy and Benjamin is the highlight
Now tell my mama I love her, but this what I like, Lord knows
Twenty of 'em in my Chevy, tell 'em all to come and get me
Reapin' everything I sow, so my karma comin' heavy
No preliminary hearings on my record
I'm a motherfuckin' gangster in silence for the record, uh
Tell the world I know it's too late
Boys and girls, I think I've gone cray
Drown inside my vices all day
Won't you please believe when I say
You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Wouldn't you know
We been hurt, been down before, nigga
When our pride was low
Lookin' at the world like, "Where do we go?" Nigga
And we hate po-po
Wanna kill us dead in the street for sure, nigga
I'm at the preacher's door
My knees gettin' weak and my gun might blow
But we gon' be alright
[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
We gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Huh? We gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
What you want you, a house⁠? You, a car?
Forty acres and a mule? A piano, a guitar?
Anything, see my name is Lucy, I'm your dog
Motherfucker, you can live at the mall
I can see the evil, I can tell it, I know it's illegal
I don't think about it, I deposit every other zero
Thinkin' of my partner, put the candy paintin' on the Regal
Diggin' in my pocket, ain't a profit big enough to feed you
Every day, my logic get another dollar just to keep you
In the presence of your chico, ah
I don't talk about it, be about it, every day, I sequel
If I got it, then you know you got it, Heaven, I can reach you
Pat Dawg, Pat Dawg, Pat Dawg, my dog, that's all
Bick back and Chad, I trap the bag for y'all
I rap, I black on track, so rest assured
My rights, my wrongs, I write 'til I'm right with God
[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Wouldn't you know
We been hurt, been down before, nigga
When our pride was low
Lookin' at the world like, "Where do we go?" Nigga
And we hate po-po
Wanna kill us dead in the street for sure, nigga
I'm at the preacher's door
My knees gettin' weak, and my gun might blow
But we gon' be alright
[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
We gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Huh? We gon' be alright
Nigga, we gon' be alright
Do you hear me, do you feel me? We gon' be alright

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar & Thundercat]
I keep my head up high
I cross my heart and hope to die
Lovin' me is complicated
Too afraid of a lot of changes
I'm alright, and you're a favorite
Dark nights in my prayers
[Poem: Kendrick Lamar]
I remembered you was conflicted
Misusing your influence, sometimes I did the same
Abusing my power, full of resentment
Resentment that turned into a deep depression
Found myself screamin' in the hotel room
I didn't wanna self-destruct
The evils of Lucy was all around me
So I went runnin' for answers781Embed

Title: Backseat Freestyle
Release Date: October 15, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-backseat-freestyle-lyrics
Song Description: In the outro of the previous song, Bitch, Dont Kill My Vibe, one of Kendricks friends asks him to rap. Backseat Freestyle serves as a flashback. The freestyle is not something present-day Kendrick Lamar truly believes in, but reflects the attitude and beliefs of young people caught up in a corrupt society (i.e. a mad city). According to legend, K.Dot recorded the track in just two takes.

Backseat Freestyle" is being in the mind state of being 16 years old, and not having no cares in the world. Not giving a damn about nothing, but life and money and what you see in front of you. Its not me talking now, its me talking then.

This song was produced by Hit-Boy of G.O.O.D. Music who originally created the beat for singer Ciara. She never responded to him, so he sent it to K.Dot. Kendrick mentions Ciara in the albums opening song.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Uh, Martin had a dream
Martin had a dream
Kendrick have a dream

[Chorus]
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or die from lead shower
I pray my dick get big as the Eiffel Tower
So I can fuck the world for seventy-two hours

[Verse 1]
Goddamn, I feel amazin', damn, I'm in the Matrix
My mind is livin' on cloud nine and this 9 is never on vacation
Start up that Maserati and, vroom, vroom, I'm racin'
Poppin' pills in the lobby and I pray they don't find her naked
And I pray you niggas is hatin', shooters go after Judas
Jesus Christ, if I live life on my knees, ain't no need to do this
Park it in front of Lueders, next to that Church's Chicken
All you pussies is losers, all my niggas is winnin', screamin'

[Chorus]
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or die from lead shower
I pray my dick get big as the Eiffel Tower
So I can fuck the world for seventy-two hours
You might also like[Post-Chorus]
Goddamn, I got bitches (Okay), damn, I got bitches (Okay)
Damn, I got bitches (Yeah), wifey, girlfriend, and mistress
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or die from lead shower

[Verse 2]
I got twenty-five lighter on my dresser, yes, sir
Put fire to that ass, body cast on a stretcher
And her body got that ass that a ruler couldn't measure
And it make me cum fast, but I never get embarrassed
And I recognize you have what I've been wantin' since that record
That Adina Howard had, pop it fast to impress her
She rollin', I'm holdin' my scrotum, imposin'
This voice here is golden, so fuck y'all, I goes in, and

[Chorus]
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or die from lead shower
I pray my dick get big as the Eiffel Tower
So I can fuck the world for seventy-two hours

[Post-Chorus]
Goddamn, I got bitches, damn, I got bitches
Damn, I got bitches, wifey, girlfriend, and mistress
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or, nigga, it's go time
[Verse 3]
I roll in dough with a good grind
And I run that ho with a baton
That's a relay race with a bouquet
They say, "K, you gon' marry mines"
Biatch, no way, biatch, no way
Biatch, no way, biatch, okay
I'm never livin' life confined
It's a failure even if I'm blind
I can tell you who, what, when, where
How to sell your game right on time
Biatch, go play, biatch, go play
Biatch, go play, biatch, I look like O.J.
Killin' everything from pussy to a motherfuckin' Hit-Boy beat
She pussy poppin' and I got options like an audible, I be
C-O-M-P-T-O-N, I win, then ball at your defeat
C-O-M-P-T-O-N, my city mobbin' in the street, yellin'

[Chorus]
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or die from lead shower
I pray my dick get big as the Eiffel Tower
So I can fuck the world for seventy-two hours

[Post-Chorus]
Goddamn, I got bitches, damn, I got bitches
Damn, I got bitches, wifey, girlfriend, and mistress
All my life, I want money and power
Respect my mind or die from lead shower
[Outro]
Let it run, Ali
Martin had a dream
Martin had a dream
Kendrick have a dream586Embed

Title: Sing About Me, I’m Dying of Thirst
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-sing-about-me-im-dying-of-thirst-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick Lamars two-part Sing About Me, Im Dying of Thirst depicts life in an urban ghetto. From beginning to end, Lamar breaks down the stories that pulled him away from gang culture, while also speaking on the spiritual rebirth that provided him with an escape from the streets.

In the first part, Kendrick takes the perspective of two different people before rapping from his own perspective to discuss the tribulations he has gone through. In the second part, K-Dot picks up where the outro skit of Swimming Pool leaves offDave gets killed and his brother is seeking retaliation. The song closes with the same prayer heard at the start of the album. In an October 2012 interview with Power 106s Big Boys Neighborhood, Kendrick spoke on putting the songs together:

Before I became this person with a mature aspect on life, it was a dark place I came from, a place of negativity, a place of being unruly. [] I really based them two tracks together because that was a situation that happened that exact same time.

Each part of the song is produced by different producersthe first half was done by Skhye Hutch and Sounwave. They sampled Grant Greens 1971 record, Maybe Tomorrow, and lifted the drums from 1972s Use Me by Bill Withers. The second half was made by Like of Pac Div, who sampled a vocal break from My Romance by The Singers Unlimited.

Kendrick split the music video into two parts for each half of the song, with Sing About Me premiering in December 2013, and Im Dying of Thirst debuting in January 2014. Its also worth noting that Lamar later mentioned this song on March 2015s These Walls, off his 2015 album, To Pimp A Butterfly.
Lyrics:

[Part I: "Sing About Me"]

[Chorus]
When the lights shut off and it's my turn
To settle down, my main concern
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me
I said when the lights shut off and it's my turn
To settle down, my main concern
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me
[Verse 1]
I woke up this morning and figured I'd call you
In case I'm not here tomorrow
I'm hopin' that I can borrow
A peace of mind, I'm behind on what's really important
My mind is really distorted
I find nothing but trouble in my life
I'm fortunate you believe in a dream
This orphanage we call a ghetto is quite a routine
And last night was just another distraction
Or a reaction of what we consider madness
I know exactly what happened
You ran outside when you heard my brother cry for help
Held him like a newborn baby and made him feel
Like everything was alright in a fight he tried to put up
But the type of bullet that stuck
Had went against his will, that's blood spilled on your hands
My plan's rather vindictive
Everybody's a victim in my eyes
When I ride it's a murderous rhythm
And outside became pitch black
A demon glued to my back, whispering "Get 'em!"
I got 'em and I ain't give a fuck
That same mentality I told my brother not to duck
In actuality it's a trip how we trip off of colors
I wonder if I'll ever discover a passion like you and recover
The life that I knew as a youngin
In pajamas and dun-ta-duns
When thunder comes it rains cats and dogs dumb
Niggas like me never prosper
Prognosis of a problem child, I'm proud and well-devoted
This Piru shit been in me forever
So forever I'ma push it, wherever, whenever
And I love you 'cause you love my brother like you did
Just promise me you'll tell this story when you make it big
And if I die before your album drop, I hope— [Gunshots]
You might also like[Chorus]
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me
I said when the lights shut off and it's my turn
To settle down, my main concern
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me
[Verse 2]
You wrote a song about my sister on your tape
And called it Section.80
The message resembled "Brenda's Got a Baby"
What's crazy was I was hearin' about it
But doubted your ignorance
How could you ever just put her on blast and shit?
Judgin' her past and shit?
Well, it's completely my future
Her nigga behind me right now askin' for ass and shit
And I'ma need that forty dollars
Even if I got to fuck, suck and swallow
In the parking lot, Gonzales Park, I'm followed
By a married man, and father of three
My titties bounce on the cadence of his tinklin' keys
Matter of fact, he my favorite 'cause he tip me with E's
He got a cousin named David and I seen him last week
This is the life of another girl damaged by the system
These foster homes, I run away and never do miss 'em
See, my hormones just run away and if I can get 'em
Back to where they used to be, then I'll probably be in the denim
Of a family gene that show women how to be woman
Or better yet, a leader, you need her to learn somethin'
Then you probably need to beat her, that's how I was taught
Three niggas in one room, first time I was tossed
And I'm exhausted, but fuck that "Sorry for your loss" shit
My sister died in vain, but what point are you tryna gain
If you can't fit the pumps I walk in?
I'll wait… Your rebuttal a little too late
And if you have a album date, just make sure I'm not in the song
'Cause I don't need the attention, bring enough of that on my own
And matter fact, did I mention that I physically feel great?
A doctor's approval is a waste of time, I know I'm straight
I'll probably live longer than you and never fade away
I'll never fade away, I'll never fade away, I know my fate
And I'm on the grind for this cake, I'ma get it or die tryin'
I'm eyein' every male gender with intentions of buyin'
You lyin' to these motherfuckers
Talkin' about you can help 'em with my story
You can help me if you sell this pussy for me, nigga
Don't ignore me, nigga, fuck your glory, nigga, you ain't shit…
[Chorus]
When the lights shut off and it's my turn
To settle down, my main concern
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me
I said when the lights shut off and it's my turn
To settle down, my main concern
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me

[Verse 3]
Sometimes I look in the mirror
And ask myself am I really scared of passin' away?
If it's today, I hope I hear a
Cry out from Heaven so loud it can water down a demon
With the Holy Ghost 'til it drown in the blood of Jesus
I wrote some raps that made sure that my lifeline reekin'
The scent of a reaper, ensurin' that my allegiance
With the other side may come soon, and if I'm doomed
May the womb of my mother be blessed for many moons
I suffer a lot
And every day that glass mirror get tougher to watch
I tie my stomach in knots
And I'm not sure why I'm infatuated with death
My imagination is surely an aggravation of threats
That can come about, 'cause the tongue is mighty powerful
And I can name a list of your favorites that probably vouch
Maybe 'cause I'm a dreamer and sleep is the cousin of death
Really stuck in the schema of wonderin' when I'ma rest
And you're right, your brother was a brother to me
And your sister's situation was the one that pulled me
In a direction to speak on somethin' that's realer than the TV screen
By any means, wasn't tryin' to offend or come between
Her personal life, I was like "It need to be told"
Cursin' the life of twenty generations after her soul
Exactly what'd happen if I ain't continue rappin'
Or steady bein' distracted by money, drugs, and 4-5's
I count lives, all on these songs
Look at the weak and cry, pray one day you'll be strong
Fightin' for your rights, even when you're wrong
And hope that at least one of you sing about me when I'm gone
Am I worth it? Did I put enough work in?
[Chorus]
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me
I said when the lights shut off and it's my turn
To settle down, my main concern
Promise that you will sing about me
Promise that you will sing about me

[Outro]
Promise that you'll sing about me forever
Promise that you'll sing about me for— ooooh
Promise that you'll sing about me forever
Promise that you'll sing about me for— ooooh
Promise that you'll sing about me forever
Promise that you'll sing about me for— ooooh
Promise that you'll sing about me forever
Promise that you'll sing about me for— ooooh
[Part II: "I'm Dying of Thirst"]

[Skit]
(On the phone)
"Ay, ay, ay, where you 'bout to go?"
"Nigga, the homie's brother—nigga, right here, he gone, my nigga, he gone!"
"Hey, come to the store for a nigga, one time."
"We on the block right now, my nigga, like, we—nigga, we right here, my nigga."
"Bring a nigga back a black!"
"Nigga—bruh—nigga, they just killed the homie's brother, my nigga. We right here on the block, my nigga… Al—alright, nigga—nigga, just come—alright, alright, just call me back, man, just call me back."
"Bring a nigga back a black!"
(*Hangs up*)
"Ahh, fuck… So, so, what we gon' do, my niggas? What we gon' do?"
"Bro, we can go back right now, my nigga. Like… nigga, I don't give a fuck, my nigga. We can go back right now."
"Fuck! I'm tired of this shit! I'm tired of fuckin' runnin', I'm tired of this shit! My brother, homie!"

[Verse 1]
Tired of runnin', oh, tired of huntin', oh
My own kind, but retirin' nothin', oh
Tires are steady screechin', the driver is rubbin', oh
Hands on the wheel, oh, who said we wasn't, oh
Dyin' of thirst, oh, dyin' of thirst, oh, dyin' of thirst, oh?

[Verse 2]
Dope on the corner, oh, look at the coroner, oh
Daughter is dead, oh, mother is mournin' her, oh
Stray bullets, oh, AK bullets
Resuscitation was waitin' patiently, but they couldn't, oh
Bring her back, oh, who got the footage, oh?
Channel 9, oh, cameras is lookin'
It's hard to channel your energy when you know he crooked, oh
Banana clip, split his banana pudding, oh
I'm like Tre, oh, that's Cuba Gooding, oh
I know I'm good at, oh
Dyin' of thirst, oh, dyin' of thirst, oh, dyin' of thirst, oh

[Verse 3]
How many sins, oh? I'm runnin' out, oh
How many sins, oh? I lost count
Dreams of ballin' like Spalding
But only shotty bounce, oh
The reaper callin', oh, I'm cottonmouth, oh
Money is power (Money is power)
Yours is ours (Yours is ours)
Lay with a snitch, oh, die with a coward, oh
Hope we get rich, oh, hope we can tower
Over the city with vanity with the music louder, oh
The same song, oh, a black flower, oh
I'll show you how to, oh
Dye your thirst, oh, dye your thirst, oh, dye your thirst, oh

[Verse 4]
What are we doin', oh? Who are we foolin', oh?
Hell is hot, oh, fire is proven, oh
To burn for eternity, return of the student
That never learned how to live righteous but how to shoot it, oh
Tired of runnin', oh, choirs is hummin', oh
Tell us to visit, oh, we lie about comin', oh
Now back to business, oh, loadin' the guns in
Back of the Buick, your hood is feudin'
The beef is bubblin', oh, it's no discussion, oh
Hereditary, oh, all of my cousins, oh
Dyin' of thirst, oh, dyin' of thirst, oh, dyin' of thirst, oh

[Verse 5]
Too many sins, oh, I'm runnin' out, oh
Somebody send me a well for the drought, oh
See all I know, oh, is takin' notes
On takin' this life for granted, granted, if he provoke, oh
My best days, oh, I stress days
(Lord, forgive me for all my sins, for I not know—)
My best days, oh, I stress days, oh
Say "fuck the world", oh, my sex slave, oh
Money, pussy, and greed—what's my next crave?
Whatever it is, know it's my next grave, oh
Tired of runnin', tired of runnin', tired of tumblin'
Tired of runnin', oh, tired of tumblin', backwards
My momma say "See, a pastor give me a promise
What if today was the rapture and you completely tarnished?
The truth will set you free, so to me be completely honest
You dyin' of thirst, you dyin' of thirst
So hop in that water, and pray that it works"
[Skit/Outro]
Fuck! I'm tired of this shit!
I'm tired of fuckin' runnin', I'm tired of this shit!
That’s my brother, homie!
Young man, come talk to me! Is that what I think that is?
I know that's not what I think that is
Why are you so angry?
See, you young men are dying of thirst
Do you know what that means?
That means you need water, holy water
You need to be baptized, with the spirit of the Lord
Do you want to receive God as your personal savior?
Okay, repeat after me:
"Lord God, I come to You a sinner"
(Lord God, I come to You a sinner)
"And I humbly repent for my sins"
(And I humbly repent for my sins)
"I believe that Jesus is Lord"
(I believe that Jesus is Lord)
"I believe You raised Him from the dead"
(I believe You raised Him from the dead)
"I would ask that Jesus come into my life"
(I would ask that Jesus come in my life)
"And be my Lord and Savior"
(And be my Lord and Savior)
"I receive Jesus to take control of my life"
(I receive Jesus to take control of my life)
"And that I may live for Him from this day forward"
(And that I may live for Him from this day forward)
"Thank you, Lord Jesus
For saving me with Your precious blood"
(Thank you, Lord Jesus
For saving me with Your precious blood)
"In Jesus' name, amen"
(In Jesus' name, amen)
Alright now, remember this day
The start of a new life, your REAL life255Embed

Title: The Blacker the Berry
Release Date: February 9, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-blacker-the-berry-lyrics
Song Description: Released via Empire star Taraji P. Hensons twitter, this comes the day after Kendrick won Best Rap Song & Performance for i at the 2015 Grammy Awards. The song shares the name and ideals of Wallace Thurmans novel The Blacker the Berry and has drawn comparisons to 2Pacs Keep Ya Head Up. Kendrick mentioned these ideals in his Billboard cover story.

TDE co-president Terrence Punch Henderson tweeted an image of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, Jr. side by side.

https://twitter.com/iamstillpunch/status/565098179884883968
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar & Lalah Hathaway]
Everything black, I don't want black (They want us to bow)
I want everything black, I ain't need black (Down to our knees)
Some white, somethin' black, I ain't mean black (And pray to the God)
I hate everything black (We don't believe)
Black, I want all things black
I don't need black, I want everything black
I don't need black, our eyes ain't black
I own black, I own everything black

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Six in the morn'
Fire in the street
Burn, baby, burn (You, you, you, you, you)
That's all I wanna see (You, you, you, you, you)
And sometimes I get off watchin' you die in vain
It's such a shame, they may call me crazy
They may say I suffer from schizophrenia or somethin'
But homie, you made me (You, you, you, you, you)
Black don't crack, my nigga
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm the biggest hypocrite of 2015
Once I finish this, witnesses will convey just what I mean
Been feelin' this way since I was sixteen, came to my senses
You never liked us anyway, fuck your friendship, I meant it
I'm African-American, I'm African, I'm black as the moon
Heritage of a small village, pardon my residence
Came from the bottom of mankind
My hair is nappy, my dick is big, my nose is round and wide
You hate me, don't you?
You hate my people, your plan is to terminate my culture
You're fuckin' evil
I want you to recognize that I'm a proud monkey
You vandalize my perception but can't take style from me
And this is more than confession
I mean I might press the button just so you know my discretion
I'm guardin' my feelings, I know that you feel it
You sabotage my community, makin' a killin'
You made me a killer, emancipation of a real nigga
You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
The blacker the berry, the bigger I shoot
[Chorus: Assassin]
I said they treat me like a slave cah me Black
Woi, we feel a whole heap of pain cah we Black
And man a say they put me inna chains cah we Black
Imagine now, big gold chains full of rocks
How you no see the whip, left scars 'pon me back
But now we have a big whip parked 'pon the block
All them say we doomed from the start cah we Black
Remember this, every race start from the Black, jus 'member dat

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm the biggest hypocrite of 2015
Once I finish this, witnesses will convey just what I mean
I mean, it's evident that I'm irrelevant to society
That's what you're tellin' me, penitentiary would only hire me
Curse me 'til I'm dead, church me with your fake prophesizing
That I'ma be just another slave in my head
Institutionalized manipulation and lies
Reciprocation of freedom only live in your eyes
You hate me, don't you?
I know you hate me just as much as you hate yourself
Jealous of my wisdom and cards I dealt
Watchin' me as I pull up, fill up my tank, then peel out
Muscle cars like pull-ups, show you what these big wheels 'bout, ah
Black and successful, this Black man meant to be special
Katzkins on my radar, bitch, how can I help you?
How can I tell you I'm making a killin'?
You made me a killer, emancipation of a real nigga
[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice
The blacker the berry, the bigger I shoot
[Chorus: Assassin]
I said they treat me like a slave cah me Black
Woi, we feel a whole heap of pain cah we Black
And man a say they put me inna chains cah we Black
Imagine now, big gold chains full of rocks
How you no see the whip, left scars 'pon me back
But now we have a big whip parked 'pon the block
All them say we doomed from the start cah we Black
Remember this, every race start from the Black, go scream mother

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm the biggest hypocrite of 2015
When I finish this, if you listen, then sure you will agree
This plot is bigger than me, it's generational hatred
It's genocism, it's grimy, little justification
I'm African-American, I'm African
I'm Black as the heart of a fuckin' Aryan
I'm Black as the name of Tyrone and Darius, excuse my French
But fuck you — no, fuck y'all, that's as blunt as it gets
I know you hate me, don't you?
You hate my people, I can tell 'cause it's threats when I see you
I can tell 'cause your ways deceitful
Know I can tell because you in love with that Desert Eagle
Thinkin' maliciously, he get a chain then you gon' bleed him
It's funny how Zulu and Xhosa might go to war
Two tribal armies that wanna build and destroy
Remind me of these Compton Crip gangs that live next door
Beefin' with Pirus, only death settle the score
So don't matter how much I say I like to preach with the Panthers
Or tell Georgia State "Marcus Garvey got all the answers"
Or try to celebrate February like it's my B-Day
Or eat watermelon, chicken, and Kool-Aid on weekdays
Or jump high enough to get Michael Jordan endorsements
Or watch BET 'cause urban support is important
So why did I weep when Trayvon Martin was in the street
When gang-banging make me kill a nigga blacker than me?
Hypocrite!
[Instrumental Outro]
[Produced by Boi-1da & Koz]1.6KEmbed

Title: ELEMENT.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-element-lyrics
Song Description: On ELEMENT., Kendrick asserts himself as the most dominant rapper in the game, taking his contemporaries to task and daring them to call him out on wax.

Kendrick delves into his personal journey of self-sacrifice and family tribulations that has so far accumulated in his life; how the struggles his family and himself have endured have influenced & carried him to where he stands today: at the top of the game.

Prior to the album release, LeBron James jammed out to this song on his Instagram story. LeBron is a huge Kendrick fan, and was instrumental in the release of his last project, untitled unmastered.

A music video, directed by Jonas Lindstroem, was released on June 27, 2017.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kid Capri & Kendrick Lamar]
New Kung Fu Kenny
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
Y'all know, what happens on Earth stays on Earth
Here we go!
I don't give a fuck, I don't give a fuck
I don't give a, I don't give a, I don't give a fuck

[Verse 1]
I'm willin' to die for this shit
I done cried for this shit, might take a life for this shit
Put the Bible down and go eye for an eye for this shit
D-O-T my enemy, won't catch a vibe for this shit, ayy
I been stomped out in front of my mama
My daddy commissary made it to commas
Bitch, all my grandmas dead
So ain't nobody prayin' for me, I'm on your head, ayy
Thirty millions later, know the feds watchin'
Auntie on my Telegram like, "Be cautious!"
I be hangin' out at Tam's, I be on Stockton
I don't do it for the 'Gram, I do it for Compton
I'm willin' to die for this shit, nigga
I'll take your fuckin' life for this shit, nigga
We ain't goin' back to broke, family sellin' dope
That's why you maney-ass rap niggas better know
You might also like[Chorus]
If I gotta slap a pussy-ass nigga, I'ma make it look sexy
If I gotta go hard on a bitch, I'ma make it look sexy
I pull up, hop out, air out, made it look sexy
They won't take me out my element
Nah, take me out my element

[Verse 2]
I'm allergic to a bitch nigga, ayy
An imaginary rich nigga, ayy
Seven figures ho, that's slimmer than my bitch figure, ayy
Goin' digital and physical on all y'all, ayy
Bunch of criminals and money in my phone calls, ayy
We okay, we let the A1 fly
Relocate, jump on the same G5
Checkin' for me heavy 'cause I go, yeah, I go, yeah
They never been ready, yeah, I know, yeah, know, yeah
100K spread across the floor, 'cross the floor, yeah
None of y'all fuckin' with the flow, yeah, the flow, yeah
Years in the makin', and don't y'all mistake it
I got 'em by a landslide, we talkin' about races
You know this'll never be a tie, just look at they laces
You know careers take off, just gotta be patient
Mr. One through Five, that's the only logic
Fake my death, go to Cuba, that's the only option
[Chorus]
If I gotta slap a pussy-ass nigga, I'ma make it look sexy
If I gotta go hard on a bitch, I'ma make it look sexy
I pull up, hop out, air out, made it look sexy
They won't take me out my element
Nah, take me out my element

[Bridge]
Damned if I do, if I don't (Yuh)
Goddamn us all if you won't (Yuh)
Damn, damn, damn, it's a goddamn shame
You ain't front in line, get out the goddamn way

[Verse 3]
Niggas thought they wasn't gonna see me, huh?
Niggas thought that K-Dot real life
Was the same life they see on TV, huh?
Niggas wanna flex on me and be in L.A. for free, huh?
Next time they hit the 10 freeway, we need a receipt, huh?
'Cause most of y'all ain't real, most of y'all gon' squeal
Most of y'all just envy, but jealousy get you killed
Most of y'all throw rocks and try to hide your hand
Just say his name and I promise that you'll see Candyman
Because it's all in your eyes, most of y'all tell lies
Most of y'all don't fade, most of y'all been advised
Last LP I tried to lift the black artists
But it's a difference 'tween black artists and wack artists
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Kid Capri]
If I gotta slap a pussy-ass nigga, I'ma make it look sexy
It's the one and only, the world's greatest, the Kid Capri
If I gotta go hard on a bitch, I'ma make it look sexy
I pull up, hop out, air out, made it look sexy
They won't take me out my element
Nah, take me out my element288Embed

Title: LOYALTY.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-loyalty-lyrics
Song Description: On LOYALTY., Kendrick Lamar and Rihanna muse on the value and necessity of complete loyalty and honesty in both platonic and romantic relationships. The song marks the first collaboration between the two artists.

The chorus interpolates Jay Zs infamous Roc-A-Fella Records maxim from 2000s Get Your Mind Right Mami, a line that Kendrick previously referenced on The Heart Part 2; while Rihanna alludes to ODBs Shimmy Shimmy Ya in verse three.

In the outro, Rihanna references the struggle of staying humble within success, which may be a nod to the first single from this album, HUMBLE.

A music video, directed by Dave Meyers, was released on July 28, 2017.

The song won a Grammy Award for Best Rap/Sung Performance at the 2018 Grammys held on Jan. 28, 2018.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Mr. Talkbox]

[Pre-Chorus: DJ Dahi & Kendrick Lamar]
I said I'm geeked and I’m fired up (Fired, fire)
All I want tonight is just get high (High, high, high)
Girl, you look so good, it's to die for (Die for, fire)
Ooh, that pussy good, it's to die for (I’m on fire)

[Chorus 1: Kendrick Lamar & Rihanna]
It's a secret society
All we ask is trust (All we ask is trust)
All we got is us
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Kung Fu Kenny now
My resume is real enough for two millennium
A better way to make a wave, stop defendin' them
I meditate and moderate all of my wins again
I'm hangin' on the fence again
I'm always on your mind
I put my lyric and my lifeline on the line
And ain't no limit when I might shine, might grind
You rollin' with it at the right time, right now
(Only for the dollar sign)
You might also like[Verse 2: Rihanna]
Bad girl RiRi now
Swerve, swerve, swerve, swerve, leave it now
On your pulse like it’s EDM
Gas in the bitch like it’s premium
Haul ass on a bitch all in the fast lane
Been a bad bitch way before any cash came
I'm established, hundred carats on my name
Run the atlas, I’m a natural, I'm alright

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar & Rihanna]
I'm a savage, I'm a asshole, I’m a king
Shimmy ya, shimmy ya, shimmy ya rah (Yeah)
You can tell your nigga he can meet me outside (Yeah)
You can babysit him when I leave him outside
Ain't no other love like the one I know
I done been down so long lost hope
I done came down so hard I slowed
Honestly forever, all a real nigga want

[Pre-Chorus: DJ Dahi & Kendrick Lamar]
I said I'm geeked and I'm fired up (Fired, fire)
All I want tonight is just to get high up (Yeah)
All I want is, all I want is

[Chorus 2: Kendrick Lamar & Rihanna]
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
10-4, no switchin' sides
Feel somethin' wrong
You actin' shifty, you don't vibe
With me no more, I need
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
[Verse 4: Kendrick Lamar]
Tell me who you loyal to
Is it money? Is it fame? Is it weed? Is it drink?
Is it comin' down with the loud pipes in the rain?
Big chillin', only for the power in your name
Tell me who you loyal to
Is it love for the streets when the lights get dark?
Is it unconditional when the 'Rari don't start?
Tell me when your loyalty is comin' from the heart

[Verse 5: Rihanna & Kendrick Lamar]
Tell me who you loyal to
Do it start with your woman or your man? (Mmm)
Do it end with your family and friends? (Mmm)
Are you loyal to yourself in advance?
I said, tell me who you loyal to
Is it anybody that you would lie for?
Anybody you would slide for?
Anybody you would die for?
That's what God for

[Pre-Chorus: DJ Dahi & Kendrick Lamar]
I said I'm geeked and I'm fired up (Fired, fire)
All I want tonight is just to get high up (Yeah)
All I want is, all I want is
[Chorus 2: Kendrick Lamar & Rihanna]
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
10-4, no switchin' sides
Feel somethin' wrong
You actin' shifty, you don't vibe
With me no more, I need
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty
Loyalty, loyalty, loyalty

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar & Rihanna, Rihanna]
It's so hard to be humble
It's so hard to be
Lord knows I'm tryin'
Lord knows I'm dyin', baby223Embed

Title: i (Album Version)
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-i-album-version-lyrics
Song Description: i is the first single from Kendricks third studio album, To Pimp a Butterfly. Kendrick received two Grammys for the studio version of the song at the 57th Grammy Awards for Best Rap Song and for Best Rap Performance.

In an interview with Hot 97, Kendrick said that i is the best song hes ever written because he never thought hed be in the mindset to make a positive song having grown up around so much negativity in Compton.

The up-tempo track once again delves deep into Kendricks personal perspective on the world. While premiering the track on LAs Power 106, Kendrick explained the song is about self expression, inspired by the lack of self love on the streets of Compton. Though To Pimp a Butterfly revolves around spiritual turmoil, self-doubt, as well as negative temptations, this song offers redemption. The mixing and production on this version emulates a live performance, as opposed to the clean production on the single.

The track further explores subjects he already covered  and personally explained on Genius  in his song Real from good kid, m.A.A.d city:

But what love got to do with it when you dont love yourself?
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar & Ronald Isley]
Is this mic on? (Hey, move this way, this way)
Hey, hey, hey, turn the mic up, c'mon, c'mon
Is the mic on or not? I want the mic
We're bringing up nobody, nobody
Nobody but the number one rapper in the world
He done traveled all over the world
He came back just to give you some game
All of the little boys and girls, come up here
(Ah, one two, one two, what's happening, fool?)
Come right here, this is for you, come on up
I done been through a whole lot (Kendrick Lamar)
Trial, tribulation, but I know God
The Devil wanna put me in a bow tie (Make some noise, brother)
Pray that the holy water don't go dry, yeah, yeah
As I look around me
So many motherfuckers wanna down me
But enemigo never drown me
In front of a dirty double-mirror they found me
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
And I love my (I love myself)
Huh, when you lookin' at me, ah, tell me what do you see?
(I love myself)
Ahh, I put a bullet in the back of the back of the head of the poli'
(I love myself)
Uh, illuminated by the hand of God, boy, don't seem shy
(I love myself)
One day at a time, huh
You might also like[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
They wanna say it's a war outside, bomb in the street
Gun in the hood, mob of police
Rock on the corner with a line for the fiend
And a bottle full of lean and a model on the scheme, uh
These days of frustration keep y'all on tuck and rotation (Come to the front, yeah)
I duck these cold faces, post up fi-fie-fo-fum basis
Dreams of reality's peace (Oh, yeah)
Blow steam in the face of the beast
Sky could fall down, wind could cry now
Look at me, motherfucker, I smile
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
And I love my (I love myself)
Uh, and when you lookin' at me, ah, tell me what do you see?
(I love myself)
Ahh, I put a bullet in the back of the back of the head of the poli'
(I love myself)
Uh, illuminated—
All y'all come to the front, y'all come up to the front
(I love myself)
Baby, what about you? Come on

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
(Crazy, what you gon' do?)
Lift up your head and keep moving (Keep moving), turn the mic up
(Haunt you)
Peace to fashion police, I wear my heart
On my sleeve, let the runway start
You know the miserable do love company
What do you want from me and my scars?
Everybody lack confidence, everybody lack confidence
How many times my potential was anonymous?
How many times the city making me promises?
So I promise this, nigga
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
(I love myself)
Uh, and when you lookin' at me, ah, tell me what do you see?
(I love myself)
Ahh, I put a bullet in the back of the back of the head of the bully
(I love myself)
Huh, illuminated by the hand of God, boy don't seem shy
(I love myself)
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Huh (Walk my bare feet), huh (Walk my bare feet)
Huh (Down, down valley deep), huh (Down, down valley deep)
(I love myself) Huh (Fi-fie-fo-fum), huh (Fi-fie-fo-fum)
(I love myself) Huh (My heart undone), one, two, three

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I went to war last night
With an automatic weapon, don't nobody call a medic
I'ma do it 'til I get it right (Oh, no)
I went to war last night (Night, night, night, night, woo)
I've been dealing with depression ever since an adolescent
Duckin' every other blessin', I can never see the message
I could never take the lead, I could never bob and weave
From a negative and letting them annihilate me
And it's evident I'm moving at a meteor speed
Finna run into a building, lay my body—
[Spoken Interlude: Kendrick Lamar]
(*Offstage argument*)
Ayy, hold on, woah, woah, stop all this
Not on my, not while I'm up here
Not on my time, kill the music, not on my time
We could save that shit for the streets
We could save that shit, this for the kids, bro
2015, niggas tired of playin' victim, dog
Niggas ain't trying to play vic—, TuTu, how many niggas we done lost?
How many—, Yan-Yan, how many we lost?
No, for real, answer the que—, how many niggas we done lost, bro?
This—, this year alone
Exactly, so we—, we ain't got time to waste time, my nigga
Niggas gotta make time, bro
The judge make time, you know that, the judge make time, right?
The judge make time so it ain't shit
It shouldn't be shit for us to come out here and appreciate the little bit of life we got left, dog
On the dead homies, Charlie P, you know that, bro
You know that
Right, it's man—, it's mando, right, it's mando
And I s—, and I—, and I—, and I say this because I, I love you niggas, man
I love all my niggas, bro
Exac—, enough said, enough said
And we gon' get back to the show and move on, because that shit petty, my nigga
Mic check, mic check, mic check, mic check, mic check
We gon' do some acapella shit before we get back to, a—
All my niggas listen, listen to this:

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
I promised Dave I'd never use the phrase "fuck nigga"
He said, "Think about what you saying: 'Fuck niggas'
No better than Samuel on the Django
No better than a white man with slave boats"
Sound like I needed some soul searching
My pops gave me some game in real person
Retraced my steps on what they never taught me
Did my homework fast before government caught me
So I'ma dedicate this one verse to Oprah
On how the infamous, sensitive N-word control us
So many artists gave her an explanation to hole us
Well, this is my explanation straight from Ethiopia
N-E-G-U-S definition: royalty; king royalty - wait, listen
N-E-G-U-S description: black emperor, king, ruler, now let me finish
The history books overlooked the word and hide it
America tried to make it to a house divided
The homies don't recognize we been using it wrong
So I'ma break it down and put my game in a song
N-E-G-U-S, say it with me, or say it no more
Black stars can come and get me
Take it from Oprah Winfrey, tell her she right on time
Kendrick Lamar, by far, realest Negus alive
[Produced by Rahki]​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
[Directed by Alexandre Moors and the Little Homies]1.3KEmbed

Title: Wesley’s Theory
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-wesleys-theory-lyrics
Song Description: Wesleys Theory establishes the albums theme by describing how racist American institutions upheld by white supremacy exploit Black creators for profit.
The first verse pictures a young Kendrick deluded by money, whilst the second is the perspective of Uncle Sam  a personification of the U.S Government and White America  trying to charm him.

The songs title may be a nod to Wesley Snipes. The actor was embroiled in a tax fraud case throughout the 2000s and served a three-year jail sentence from 2010 to 2013. The U.S. Government stated Snipes was using tax protester theory in an attempt to get out of his charges.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Flying Lotus & Ronald "Flippa" Colson]
[Additional production by Sounwave & Thundercat]

[Sample: Boris Gardiner]
Every nigga is a star, ayy, every nigga is a star
Every nigga is a star, ayy, every nigga is a star
Every nigga is a star, ayy
Who will deny that you and I and every nigga is a star?
[Intro: Josef Leimberg]
Hit me!
When the four corners of this cocoon collide
You'll slip through the cracks hopin' that you'll survive
Gather your wit, take a deep look inside
Are you really who they idolize?
To Pimp a Butterfly

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
At first, I did love you
But now I just wanna fuck
Late nights thinkin' of you
Until I get my nut
Tossed and turned, lesson learned
You was my first girlfriend
Bridges burned, all across the board
Destroyed, but what for?
You might also like[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
When I get signed, homie, I'ma act a fool
Hit the dance floor, strobe lights in the room
Snatch your little secretary bitch for the homies
Blue-eyed devil with a fat-ass monkey
I'ma buy a brand new Caddy on vogues
Trunk the hood up, two times, deuce-four
Platinum on everythin', platinum on weddin' ring
Married to the game and a bad bitch chose
When I get signed, homie, I'ma buy a strap
Straight from the CIA, set it on my lap
Take a few M-16s to the hood
Pass 'em all out on the block, what's good?
I'ma put the Compton swap meet by the White House
Republican run up, get socked out
Hit the press with a Cuban link on my neck
Uneducated, but I got a million-dollar check like that
[Refrain: Thundercat & George Clinton]
We should never gave
We should never gave niggas money
Go back home, money, go back home
We should never gave
We should never gave niggas money
Go back home, money, go back home
(Everybody get out)
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar, Thundercat & George Clinton]
At first, I did love you (Love you)
But now I just wanna fuck (I just wanna fuck)
Late nights thinkin' of you (Of you)
Until I get my nut ('Til I get my nut)
Tossed and turned, lesson learned
You was my first girlfriend
Bridges burned, all across the board (Across the board)
Destroyed, but what for?
[Break: Dr. Dre]
Yo, what's up? It's Dre
Remember the first time you came out to the house?
You said you wanted a spot like mine
But remember, anybody can get it
The hard part is keepin' it, motherfucker
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
What you want you? A house or a car?
Forty acres and a mule, a piano, a guitar?
Anythin', see, my name is Uncle Sam, I'm your dog
Motherfucker, you can live at the mall
I know your kind (That's why I'm kind)
Don't have receipts (Oh, man, that's fine)
Pay me later, wear those gators
Cliché? Then say, "Fuck your haters"
I can see the baller in you, I can see the dollar in you
Little white lies, but it's no white-collar in you
But it's whatever though because I'm still followin' you
Because you make me live forever, baby
Count it all together, baby
Then hit the register and make me feel better, baby
Your horoscope is a Gemini, two sides
So you better cop everything two times
Two coupes, two chains, two C-notes
Too much ain't enough, both we know
Christmas, tell 'em what's on your wish list
Get it all, you deserve it, Kendrick
And when you hit the White House, do you
But remember, you ain't pass economics in school
And everything you buy, taxes will deny
I'll Wesley Snipe your ass before thirty-five (Yeah)
[Bridge: George Clinton & Kendrick Lamar]
Yeah, lookin' down, it's quite a drop (It's quite a drop, drop, drop)
Lookin' good when you're on top (We’re on top together)
You got a medal for us
Leavin' metaphors metaphysically in a state of euphoria
Look both ways before you cross my mind

[Refrain: Thundercat & George Clinton]
We should never gave
We should never gave niggas money
Go back home, money, go back home
We should never gave
We should never gave niggas money
Go back home, money, go back home

[Outro: Anna Wise & Whitney Alford]
Tax man comin', tax man comin'
Tax man comin', tax man comin'
Tax man comin', tax man comin'
Tax man comin', tax man comin'

Title: A.D.H.D
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-adhd-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick Lamar demonstrates a robust knowledge of drug culture and neurotransmitters on A.D.H.D. He mentions such topics as tolerance, endorphins, and cold water extraction. This knowledge does not come without some regret, as the song is largely a commentary on the prevalence of drug abuse in his generation.

The song itself utilizes a sample of Knighthawk from The Jet Age Of Tomorrows first album Voyager. The song also appeared on Radio Los Santos in the 2013 soundtrack for Grand Theft Auto V.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh-uh, fuck that

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Eight doobies to the face, fuck that
Twelve bottles in the case, nigga, fuck that
Two pills and a half-weight, nigga, fuck that
Got a high tolerance when your age don't exist

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Man, I swear my nigga trippin' off that shit again
Pick him up, then I set him in cold water
Then I order someone to bring him Vicodin
Hope that take the pain away
From the feelin' that he feel today
You know when you part of Section.80
You feel like no one can relate
'Cause you are, you are, a loner, loner
Marijuana endorphins make you stronger, stronger
I'm in the house party trippin' off
My generation sippin' cough syrup like it's water
Never no pancakes in the kitchen
Man, not one of our lives is caught up
In the daily superstition that the world is 'bout to end
Who gives a fuck? We never do listen
'Less it comes with an 808 (A melody and some hoes)
PlayStation and some drank (Technology bought my soul)
Lookin' around and all I see is a big crowd that's product of me
And they probably relatives relevant for a rebel's dream
Yep, her president is Black, she Black too
Purple Label on her back, but that tab is light blue
She take it straight to the head, then she look at me
She got ADHD
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Eight doobies to the face, fuck that
Twelve bottles in the case, nigga, fuck that
Two pills and a half-weight, nigga, fuck that
Got a high tolerance when your age don't exist

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Like woah-woah, woah, woah-woah, woah (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
Woah-woah, woah, woah-woah, woah (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
(They always told me ADHD did it)
Woah, woah-woah

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
And then she started
And then she started feelin' herself like no one else in this apartment
"Beg your pardon? Oh, I rap, baby, how old are you?"
She say twenty-two, I say twenty-three, "Okay, then we are crack babies," damn
"Why you say that?" She said, "Where my drink at?"
"I'ma tell you later, just tell your neighbors and the police relax"
I stood up, shut the blind, closed the screen, Jumbotron
Made to the back where she reside, then she said, "Read between the lines," yep
Hope that I get close enough when the lights turn down
And the fact that she just might open up when the Nuvo start to drown
Her body, and I know the both of us really deep in the mood now
It's nothin' we can do now, somebody walked in with a pound (Woah)
Of that Bay Area kush, she looked at me, then looked
At it, then she grabbed it, then she said, "Get it understood"
"You know why we crack babies? Because we born in the '80s
The ADHD crazy"
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Eight doobies to the face, fuck that
Twelve bottles in the case, nigga, fuck that
Two pills and a half-weight, nigga, fuck that
Got a high tolerance when your age don't exist

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Like woah-woah, woah, woah-woah, woah (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
Woah-woah, woah, woah-woah, woah (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
(They always told me ADHD did it)
Woah, woah-woah

[Outro: Ab-Soul]
You can have all my shine, I'll give you the light
Double cup, deuce, four, six, just mix it in Sprite
Ecstasy, 'shrooms, blow, 'dro, hoes, whatever you like
You can have all my shine, I'll give you the light
[Produced by Sounwave]

Title: FEAR.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-fear-lyrics
Song Description: On FEAR., Kendrick explores three instances of true terror at ages 7, 17, and 27, respectively. In the first verse, he explores the fear he experienced growing up in the hood with a strict mother.

The second verse interpolates Beanie Sigels classic track Die and explores the life of a teenage Kendrick expressing his fear of dying at a young age; especially with the rampant gang activity and police brutality in Compton, California. He takes a distinct turn in tone, rapping in a deep, monotone voice that denotes adolescent depression.

In the third and fourth verse, Kendrick revisits the anxieties found on 2015s To Pimp A Butterfly: the lack of confidence in himself and his abilities, and the fear of losing the life he had built for himself; particularly at the age of 27. This notion may have been inspired by the familiar concept of the 27 Club, a group of famous artists and musicians who died at this age.

The fourth verse also acts as a thesis statement for the entire album, combining references to every other song on the tracklist. He goes beyond simply naming the tracks by addressing the recurring question from the albums opener, BLOOD.:

Is it wickedness?
Is it weakness?
You decide

Kendrick said that the verses in this song are the best hes ever written, in an interview with i-D Magazine on October 17, 2017.

According to Songfacts, he explained the veracity of the song:

Its completely honest. The first verse is everything that I feared from the time that I was seven years old. The second verse I was 17, in the third its everything I feared when I was 27. These verses are completely honest.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Dale Warren]
Poverty's paradise
I don’t think I could find a way to make it on this earth
(I've been hungry all my life)

[Voicemail: Carl Duckworth]
What's up, family?
Yeah, it’s your cousin Carl, man, just givin' you a call, man
I know you been havin' a lot on yo' mind lately
And I know you feel like, you know
People ain't been prayin' for you
But you have to understand this, man, that we are a cursed people Deuteronomy 28:28 says, "The Lord shall smite thee with madness And blindness, and astonishment of heart"
See, family, that's why you feel like you feel
Like you got a chip on your shoulder
Until you follow His commandments, you gonna feel that way...

[Bridge 1: Charles Edward Sydney Isom Jr. & Kendrick Lamar]
Why God, why God do I gotta suffer?
Pain in my heart carry burdens full of struggle
Why God, why God do I gotta bleed?
Every stone thrown at you restin' at my feet
Why God, why God do I gotta suffer?
Earth is no more, won’t you burn this muh’fucka?
I don't think I could find a way to make it on this earth
Akcuf’hum siht nrub uoy t'now ,erom on si htraE
Reffus attog I od doG yhw ,doG yhW
Teef ym ta 'nitser uoy ta nworht enots yrevE
Deelb attog I od doG yhw ,doG yhW
Elggurts fo lluf snedrub yrrac traeh ym ni niaP
Reffus attog I od doG yhw ,doG yhW
Teef ym ta 'nitser uoy ta nworht enots yrevE
You might also like[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I beat yo’ ass, keep talkin' back
I beat yo' ass, who bought you that?
You stole it, I beat yo' ass if you say that game is broken
I beat yo' ass if you jump on my couch
I beat yo' ass if you walk in this house
With tears in your eyes, runnin' from Poo Poo and Prentice
Go back outside, I beat yo' ass, lil' nigga
That homework better be finished, I beat yo' ass
Your teachers better not be bitchin' 'bout you in class
That pizza better not be wasted, you eat it all
That TV better not be loud if you got it on
Them Jordans better not get dirty when I just bought 'em
Better not hear 'bout you humpin' on Keisha's daughter
Better not hear you got caught up
I beat yo' ass, you better not run to your father
I beat yo' ass, you know my patience runnin' thin
I got buku payments to make
County building's on my ass, tryna take my food stamps away
I beat yo' ass if you tell them social workers he live here
I beat yo' ass if I beat yo' ass twice and you still here
Seven years old, think you run this house by yourself?
Nigga, you gon' fear me if you don't fear no one else

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
If I could smoke fear away, I'd roll that mothafucker up
And then I'd take two puffs
I'm high now (Huh), I'm high now (Huh)
I'm high now (Huh), I'm high now (Huh)
Life's a bitch, pull them panties to the side now
(Pull them panties to the side now)
I don't think I could find a way to make it on this earth
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I'll prolly die anonymous, I'll prolly die with promises
I'll prolly die walkin' back home from the candy house
I'll prolly die because these colors are standin' out
I'll prolly die because I ain't know Demarcus was snitchin'
I'll prolly die at these house parties, fuckin' with bitches
I'll prolly die from witnesses leavin' me falsed accused
I'll prolly die from thinkin' that me and your hood was cool
Or maybe die from pressin' the line, actin' too extra
Or maybe die because these smokers are more than desperate
I'll prolly die from one of these bats and blue badges
Body-slammed on black and white paint, my bones snappin'
Or maybe die from panic or die from bein' too lax
Or die from waitin' on it, die 'cause I'm movin' too fast
I'll prolly die tryna buy weed at the apartments
I'll prolly die tryna defuse two homies arguin'
I'll prolly die 'cause that's what you do when you're 17
All worries in a hurry, I wish I controlled things

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
If I could smoke fear away, I'd roll that mothafucker up
And then I'd take two puffs
(I've been hungry all my life)
I'm high now (Huh), I'm high now (Huh)
I'm high now (Huh), I'm high now (Huh)
Life's a bitch, pull them panties to the side now
(Pull them panties to the side now)
Now
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
When I was 27, I grew accustomed to more fear
Accumulated 10 times over throughout the years
My newfound life made all of me magnified
How many accolades do I need to block denial?
The shock value of my success put bolts in me
All this money, is God playin' a joke on me?
Is it for the moment, and will he see me as Job?
Take it from me and leave me worse than I was before?
At 27, my biggest fear was losin' it all
Scared to spend money, had me sleepin' from hall to hall
Scared to go back to Section 8 with my mama stressin'
30 shows a month and I still won't buy me no Lexus
What is an advisor? Somebody that's holdin' my checks
Just to fuck me over and put my finances in debt?
I read a case about Rihanna's accountant and wondered
How did the Bad Girl feel when she looked at them numbers?
The type of shit'll make me flip out and just kill somethin'
Drill somethin', get ill and fill ratchets with a lil' somethin'
I practiced runnin' from fear, guess I had some good luck
At 27 years old, my biggest fear was bein' judged
How they look at me reflect on myself, my family, my city
What they say 'bout me reveal if my reputation would miss me
What they see from me would trickle down generations in time
What they hear from me would make 'em highlight my simplest lines
I'm talkin' fear, fear of losin' creativity
I'm talkin' fear, fear of missin' out on you and me
I'm talkin' fear, fear of losin' loyalty from pride
'Cause my DNA won't let me involve in the light of God
I'm talkin' fear, fear that my humbleness is gone
I'm talkin' fear, fear that love ain't livin' here no more
I'm talkin' fear, fear that it's wickedness or weakness
Fear, whatever it is, both is distinctive
Fear, what happens on Earth stays on Earth
And I can't take these feelings with me, so hopefully, they disperse
Within fourteen tracks, carried out over wax
Searchin' for resolutions until somebody get back
Fear, what happens on Earth stays on Earth
And I can't take these feelings with me, so hopefully they disperse
Within fourteen tracks, carried out over wax
Wonderin' if I'm livin' through fear or livin' through rap
Damn

[Bridge 2: Bēkon]
God damn you, God damn me
God damn us, God damn we
God damn us all

[Outro: Carl Duckworth]
Verse 2 says, "You only have I known of all the families of the Earth, therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities"
So until we come back to these commandments
Until you come back to these commandments
We gonna feel this way, we gonna be under this curse
Because He said He's gonna punish us
The so-called Blacks, Hispanics, and Native American Indians
Are the true children of Israel
We are the Israelites, according to the Bible
The children of Israel
He's gonna punish us for our iniquities, for our disobedience
Because we chose to follow other gods
That man chastens his son, so the Lord, thy God, chasten thee
So, just like you chasten your own son, He's gonna chasten you
Because He loves you, so that's why we get chastised
That's why we're in the position that we're in
Until we come back to these laws, statutes, and commandments
And do what the Lord says, these curses is gonna be upon us
We gonna be at a lower state in this life that we live
Here, in today, in the United States of America
I love you, family, and I pray for you
God bless you
Shalom178Embed

Title: PRIDE.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-pride-lyrics
Song Description: PRIDE is an introspective track that continues the albums strong religious themes. Consider Proverbs 11:2:

When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with the humble is wisdom.

Kendrick delves deep into his own pride and his recognition as one of the best rappers alive causing tension between his ideals and his actions. The vocal pitch varies from high to low throughout the song, which reflects the contrast between his ideals and his actions. Pride is often considered the original and most serious of the seven deadly sins. It is the direct perversion of the humility that makes humans more God-like.

The stark contrast between PRIDE.s beat and HUMBLE.s beat is very intentional. Pride has a very soft-spoken (humble) beat, while Humbles beat is bombastic and in-your-face, each instrumental paradoxically contrasting the topic of their respective songs.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Bēkon]
Love's gonna get you killed
But pride’s gonna be the death of you and you and me
And you and you and you and me
And you and you and you and me
And you and you and you and me and—

[Chorus: Steve Lacy & Kendrick Lamar]
Me, I wasn't taught to share, but care
In another life, I surely was there
Me, I wasn't taught to share, but care
I care, I care

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Hell-raising, wheel-chasing, new worldly possessions
Flesh-making, spirit-breaking, which one would you lessen?
The better part, the human heart, you love ’em or dissect 'em
Happiness or flashiness? How do you serve the question?
See, in a perfect world, I would be perfect, world
I don't trust people enough beyond they surface, world
I don't love people enough to put my faith in man
I put my faith in these lyrics, hoping I make a band
I understand I ain't perfect, I probably won't come around
This time I might put you down
Last time I ain't give a fuck, I still feel the same now
My feelings might go numb, you're dealin’ with cold thumb
I’m willin' to give up a leg and arm to show empathy from
Pity parties and functions of you and yours
A perfect world, you probably live another 24
I can’t fake humble just 'cause your ass is insecure
I can't fake humble just 'cause your ass is insecure
You might also like[Chorus: Steve Lacy & Kendrick Lamar]
Me, I wasn’t taught to share, but care
In another life, I surely was there
Me, I wasn't taught to share, but care
I care, I care
[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
Maybe I wasn't there (We saw you first)
Maybe I wasn't there (I saw you first)
Maybe I wasn't there (I saw you first)
Maybe I wasn't there

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Now, in a perfect world, I probably won't be insensitive
Cold as December but never remember what winter did
I wouldn't blame you for mistakes I made or the bed I laid
Seems like I point the finger just to make a point nowadays
Smiles and cold stares, the temperature goes there
Indigenous disposition, feel like we belong here
I know the walls, they can listen, I wish they could talk back
The hurt becomes repetition, the love almost lost that
Sick venom in men and women overcome with pride
A perfect world is never perfect, only filled with lies
Promises are broken and more resentment come alive
Race barriers make inferior of you and I
See, in a perfect world, I'll choose faith over riches
I'll choose work over bitches, I'll make schools out of prison
I'll take all the religions and put 'em all in one service
Just to tell 'em we ain't shit, but He's been perfect, world
[Chorus: Steve Lacy & Kendrick Lamar]
Me, I wasn't taught to share, but care
In another life, I surely was there
Me, I wasn't taught to share, but care
I care, I care
[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
Maybe I wasn't there (We saw you first)
Maybe I wasn't there (I saw you first)
Maybe I wasn't there (I saw you first)
Maybe I wasn't there170Embed

Title: Mortal Man
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-mortal-man-lyrics
Song Description: Inspired in part by a 2014 trip to South Africa, Mortal Man name-checks leaders from Nelson Mandela, to Martin Luther King Jr, Malcolm X and Moses.

At the back-end of the song Kendrick interviews the last King of Hip-Hop, Tupac Shakur. The two West Coast MCs discuss black culture, racism, fame and image. Kendrick realizes hes the new voice in a long line of leaders. Like Nelson Mandela, Malcolm X, Martin Luther King Jr. and Tupac Shakur, he understands that he has a limited time, and when speaking with Tupac he knows that he has to reach out to the teenagers and recruit them to change the world.

The excerpts of 2Pacs conversation with Kendrick were taken from a 1994 interview with the Swedish radio show P3 Soul, hosted by Mats Nileskr. You can listen to the interview in its entirety here.

Kendrick also shared his connection to Tupac in an interview with MTV, where he revealed the album was originally titled Tu Pimp A Caterpillar  Tu.P.A.C.
Lyrics:

[Intro: James Fauntleroy & Kendrick Lamar]
Oh, oh (Ooh)
Whoa, oh
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah
Yeah (Ow)
Uh

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The ghost of Mandela, hope my flows they propel it
Let these words be your Earth and moon, you consume every message
As I lead this army, make room for mistakes and depression
And with that being said, my nigga, let me ask this question:

[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
When shit hit the fan—
(One two, one two, one two)
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The ghost of Mandela, hope my flows stay propellin'
Let these words be your Earth and moon, you consume every message
As I lead this army, make room for mistakes and depression
And with that being said, my nigga, let me ask this question:
You might also like[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
Won't you look to your left and right? Make sure you ask your friends
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Do you believe in me? Are you deceiving me?
Could I let you down easily? Is your heart where it need to be?
Is your smile on permanent? Is your vow on lifetime?
Would you know where the sermon is if I died in this next line?
If I'm tried in a court of law, if the industry cut me off
If the government want me dead, plant cocaine in my car
Would you judge me a drug-head or see me as K. Lamar?
Or question my character and degrade me on every blog?
Want you to love me like Nelson, want you to hug me like Nelson
I freed you from being a slave in your mind, you're very welcome
You tell me my song is more than a song, it's surely a blessing
But a prophet ain't a prophet 'til they ask you this question:
[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
Won't you look to your left and right? Make sure you ask your friends
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The ghost of Mandela, hope my flows stay propellin'
Let my words be your Earth and moon, you consume every message
As I lead this army, make room for mistakes and depression
And with that—

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Do you believe in me? How much you believe in her?
You think she gon' stick around if them 25 years occur?
You think he can hold you down when you down behind bars, hurt?
You think y'all on common ground if you promise to be the first? Can you be immortalized without your life being expired?
Even though you share the same blood, is it worth the time?
Like, who got your best interest?
Like, how much are you dependent?
How clutch are the people that say they love you?
And who pretending?
How tough is your skin when they turn you in?
Do you show forgiveness?
What brush do you bend when dusting your shoulders from being offended?
What kind of den did they put you in when the lions start hissing?
What kind of bridge did they burn?
Revenge on your mind when it's mentioned
You wanna love like Nelson, you wanna be like Nelson
You wanna walk in his shoes, but your peacemaking seldom
You wanna be remembered that delivered the message
That considered the blessing of everyone
This your lesson for everyone, say;
[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
Won't you look to your left and right? Make sure you ask your friends
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The voice of Mandela, hope this flow stay propellin'
Let my word be your Earth and moon, you consume every message
As I lead this army, make room for mistakes and depression
And if you riding with me, nigga—

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I been wrote off before, I got abandonment issues
I hold grudges like bad judges, don't let me resent you
That's not Nelson-like—want you to love me like Nelson
I went to Robben's Island analysing; that's where his cell is
So I could find clarity—like, how much you cherish me?
Is this relationship a fake, or real as the heavens be?
See, I got to question it all; family, friends, fans, cats, dogs
Trees, plants, grass, how the wind blow, Murphy's Law
Generation X—will I ever be your ex?
Flaws of a baby step', mauled by the mouth of Pit bulls
Put me under stress, crawled under rocks, duckin' y'all
It's respect—but then tomorrow, put my back against the wall
How many leaders you said you needed then left 'em for dead?
Is it Moses? Is it Huey Newton or Detroit Red?
Is it Martin Luther? JFK? Shooter—you assassin
Is it Jackie? Is it Jesse? Oh, I know it's Michael Jackson—oh

[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?
That nigga gave us "Billie Jean," you say he touched those kids?
When shit hit the fan, is you still a fan?

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The ghost of Mandela, hope my flows stay propelling
Let my word be your Earth and moon, you consume every message
As I lead this army, make room for mistakes and depression
And if you riding with me, nigga, let me ask this question, nigga

[Spoken Outro: Kendrick Lamar & 2Pac]
"I remember you was conflicted
Misusing your influence
Sometimes I did the same
Abusing my power, full of resentment
Resentment that turned into a deep depression
Found myself screaming in the hotel room
I didn't wanna self-destruct
The evils of Lucy was all around me
So I went running for answers
Until I came home
But that didn't stop survivor's guilt
Going back and forth trying to convince myself the stripes I earned
Or maybe how A-1 my foundation was
But while my loved ones was fighting the continuous war back in the city
I was entering a new one
A war that was based on apartheid and discrimination
Made me wanna go back to the city and tell the homies what I learned
The word was respect
Just because you wore a different gang color than mine's
Doesn't mean I can't respect you as a black man
Forgetting all the pain and hurt we caused each other in these streets
If I respect you, we unify and stop the enemy from killing us
But I don't know, I'm no mortal man
Maybe I'm just another nigga”
Shit and that's all I wrote
I was gonna call it "Another Nigga," but it ain't really a poem
I just felt like it's something you probably could relate to
Other than that, now that I finally got a chance to holla at you
I always wanted to ask you about a certain situa—
About a metaphor, actually, uh, you spoke on the ground
What you mean by that? What the ground represent?
The ground is gonna open up and swallow the evil
Right
That's how I see it, my word is bond
I see—and the ground is the symbol for the poor people
Right
The poor people is gonna open up this whole world
And swallow up the rich people
'Cause the rich people gonna be so fat (Mhm)
And they gonna be so appetizing (Mhm)
You know what I'm saying, wealthy (Right), appetizing (Hungry)
The poor gonna be so poor, and hungry
Right
You know what I'm saying, it's gonna be like
You know what I'm saying, it's gonna be
There might—, there might be some cannibalism out this muhfu—
They might eat the rich, you know what I'm saying?
A'ight, so let me ask you this, then
Do you see yourself as somebody that's rich
Or somebody that made the best of they own opportunities?
I see myself as a natural-born hustler
A true hustler in every sense of the word
I took nothin', I took the opportunities
I worked at the m-most menial and degrading job
And built myself up so I could get it to where I owned it
I-I went from having somebody managing me
To me hiring the person that works my management company (Right)
I changed everything, I realized my destiny
In a matter of five years, you know what I'm saying?
I made myself a millionaire (Right), I made—, I made millions for a lot of people
Now it's time to make millions for myself, you know what I'm saying?
I made millions for the record companies (Mhm)
I made millions for these movie companies (Mhm)
Now I make millions for, for us (Mmm)

And through your different avenues of success
How would you say you managed to keep a level of sanity?
By my faith in God, by my faith in the game
And by my faith in "all good—, all good things come to those that stay true"
Right
You know what I'm saying?
And it was happening to me for a reason
You know what I'm saying, I was noticing, shit
I was punching the right buttons and it was happening
So, it's no problem, you know
I mean, it's a problem, but I'm not finna let them know (Hmm)
I'm finna go straight through
Would you consider yourself a fighter at heart or somebody that
Somebody that only reacts when they back is against the wall?
Shit, I like to think that at every opportunity I've ever been, uh, threatened with resistance, it's been met with resistance
And not only me, but it goes down my family tree
You know what I'm saying, it's in my veins to fight back
Aight, well, how long will you think it take before niggas be like
"We fighting a war, I'm fighting a war I can't win
And I wanna lay it all down"
In this country, a Black man only have like
Five years we can exhibit maximum strength
And that's right now while you a teenager, while you still strong
While you still wanna lift weights, while you still wanna shoot back
'Cause once you turn thirty it's like
They take the heart and soul out of a man
Out of a Black man in this country
And you don't wanna fight no more
And if you don't believe me, you can look around
You don't see no loud mouth thirty-year old motherfuckers (Mhm)

That's crazy, because me, being one of your offsprings of the legacy you left behind
I can truly tell you that there's nothing but turmoil goin' on so, I want to ask you
What you think is the future for me and my generation today?
I think that niggas is tired of grabbin' shit out the stores
And next time it's a riot it's gonna be like, uh, bloodshed, for real
I don't think America know that
I think America think we was just playing
And it's gonna be some more playing but
It ain't gonna be no playing
It's gonna be murder, you know what I'm saying?
It's gonna be like Nat Turner, 1831 (Mhm), up in this motherfucker
You know what I'm saying, it's gonna happen (Mmm)

That's crazy, man, in my opinion
Only hope that we kinda have left is music and vibrations
A lot of people don't understand how important it is, you know
Sometimes I can like, get behind a mic and I don't know what type of energy
I'ma push out or where it comes from
Trip me out sometimes
Because it's spirits, we ain't even really rappin'
We just letting our dead homies tell stories for us (Damn)
I wanted to read one last thing to you
It's actually something a good friend had wrote
Describing my world
It says:
“The caterpillar is a prisoner to the streets that conceived it
Its only job is to eat or consume everything around it
In order to protect itself from this mad city
While consuming its environment
The caterpillar begins to notice ways to survive
One thing it noticed is how much the world shuns him
But praises the butterfly
The butterfly represents the talent, the thoughtfulness
And the beauty within the caterpillar
But having a harsh outlook on life
The caterpillar sees the butterfly as weak
And figures out a way to pimp it to his own benefits
Already surrounded by this mad city
The caterpillar goes to work on the cocoon
Which institutionalizes him
He can no longer see past his own thoughts, he's trapped
When trapped inside these walls certain ideas take root, such as
Going home, and bringing back new concepts to this mad city
The result?
Wings begin to emerge, breaking the cycle of feeling stagnant
Finally free, the butterfly sheds light on situations
That the caterpillar never considered
Ending the internal struggle
Although the butterfly and caterpillar are completely different
They are one and the same"
What's your perspective on that?
Pac? Pac? Pac?

Title: 6:16 in LA
Release Date: May 3, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-6-16-in-la-lyrics
Song Description: 6:16 in LA is Kendrick Lamars second diss track directed at Drake in their public 2024 beef. It follows euphoria, which released three days prior. It first appeared on Kendricks Instagram page at 6:16 AM Pacific.

The song may have been bait for Drake to respond with his following diss track, Family Matters, to see if he mentioned Kendricks family. When he did, Kendrick dropped meet the grahams 57 minutes later. Notably, the lyrics suggest that Kendrick Lamar has an inside man within Drakes team, giving Lamar information about Drakes plans and activities. For example, on the verse Kendrick says:

Have you ever thought that OVO is workin' for me?
Fake bully, I hate bullies, you must be a terrible person
Everyone inside your team is whispering that you deserve it

The cover art for the song is cropped from a larger picture which originally served as cover art for meet the grahams. It featured a glove with the Maybach logo on it, a division of car manufacturer Mercedes-Benz, which shares a name with rapper Rick Rosss music label, Maybach Music Group. Ross dropped a Drake diss track of his own in April 2024, titled Champagne Moments.

Kendrick initially threatened a second diss at Drake on euphoria, when he said:

Back To Back, I like that record
I'ma get back to that, for the record

In Drakes infamous 2015 beef with Meek Mill, he dropped two disses aimed at Meek within four daysCharged Up and then Back to Backnot giving Meek any time to respond to his first punches in the fight.

The title of the track also plays off of Drakes timestamp series, of which there have been seven installments in Drakes discography at the time of this release. It follows a not-so-subtle titular jab at Drake in Dots previous diss track, as Euphoria is the title of the hit HBO Max series which Drake is an executive producer on; incidentally, Euphoria premiered on June 16, 2019.

June 16, 1994 is also the same date that the OJ Simpson murder trial was submitted in LA. This may add to the use of a single black glove on the cover art, since a glove was famously presented as evidence in the case.

The title may have several other potential meanings, whether intentional or purely coincidental, for example: June 16 is the birthdate of the late 2Pac, while Kendricks birthday falls on June 17; Fathers Day will fall on this day in 2024; June 16 was also the date of Kendricks first concert in Toronto. His 2011 tweet was even quoted by the founder of Twitter at the time, Jack Dorsey.

6:16 in LA was co-produced and co-written by Jack Antonoff, a pop producer known for his collaborations with Taylor Swift. Antonoffs inclusion is likely a response to Drakes Taylor Made Freestyle, where he said:

But now we gotta wait a fuckin' week cause Taylor Swift is your new Top
And if you 'bout to drop, she gotta approve
This girl really 'bout to make you act like you not in a feud
She tailor-made your schedule with Ant, you out of the loop

The instrumental samples Al Greens October 1972 track What a Wonderful Thing Love Is, which features Drakes uncle, Teenie Hodges, on guitar. Notably, the sample has been manipulated to sound similar to Boi-1-daone of Drakes in-house OVO producers.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Uh (Uh)
Uh (Uh)
Uh, yeah (Uh)
It's survival, survival
I think somebody lying
Smell somebody lying
I don't see no fire
[Verse 1]
Off-white Sunseeker at the marina
Fuck a Phantom, I like to buy yachts when I get the fever
Wine cooler spill on my white t-shirt, the sightseer
Trifecta, money, morals, and culture, that's my leisure
My visa, passport tatted, I should hub in Ibiza
Lucalis dwellings in Brooklyn just to book me some pizza
Who could reach us? Only God could teleport this type of freedom
God, ah, my confession is yours
But, who am I if I don't go to war?
There's opportunity when livin' with loss
I discover myself when I fall short
Raise my hands to a fallen sky, I fantasize
Me jumpin' planets immortalized, I correspond
Three angels watchin' me all the time
Put my children to sleep with a prayer, then close my eyes
Definition of peace
Tell me who gon' stop me? I come from love
Estelle cover my heart, then open me up
Remember when picked up a pen, lyrics that I can trust
Timid soul, stare in the mirror, askin' where I was from often
I know this type of power is gon' cost
But I live in circadian rhythms of a shooting star
The mannerisms of Raphael, I can heal or give you art
But the industry's cooked as I pick the carcass apart
You might also like[Verse 2]
Yeah, somebody's lyin', I can see the vibes on Ak'
Even he lookin' compromised, let's peel the layers back
Ain't no brownie points for beating your chest, harassin' Ant
Fuckin' with good people make good people go to bat
Conspiracies about Cash, dog? That's not even the leak
Find the jewels like Kash Doll, I just need you to think
Are you finally ready to play have-you-ever? – let's see
Have you ever thought that OVO is workin' for me?
Fake bully, I hate bullies, you must be a terrible person
Everyone inside your team is whispering that you deserve it
Can't Toosie Slide up outta this one, it's just gon' resurface
Every dog gotta have its day, now live in your purpose
It was fun until you started to put money in the streets
Then lost money 'cause they came back with no receipts
I'm sorry that I live a boring life, I love peace
But war-ready if the world is ready to see you bleed, The Elohim, KTW
Know you can't sleep, these images trouble you
Know the wires in your circle should puzzle you
If you were street-smart, then you woulda caught that your entourage is only to hustle you
A hundred niggas that you got on salary
And twenty of 'em want you as a casualty
And one of them is actually next to you
And two of them is practically tired of your lifestyle
Just don't got the audacity to tell you
But let me tell you some game 'cause I can see you, my lil' homie
You playin' dirty with propaganda, it blow up on ya
You're playin' nerdy with Zack Bia and Twitter bots
But your reality can't hide behind Wi-Fi
Your lil' memes is losin' steam, they figured you out
The forced opinions is not convincin', y'all need a new route
It's time that you look around on who's around you
Before you figure that you're not alone, ask: "What Mike would do?"

Title: u
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-u-lyrics
Song Description: The sixth track on Lamars third album, u acts as a complete contrast to its lead single i, an anthem of peace, positivity, and prosperity starting with self-love.

With more melancholic production than the funk-influenced i, Kendrick peers deep into the dark caverns of his heart to expose the negative thoughts that plague his mind, at point referring to himself as a fucking failure. In addition to breaking the track down with MTV, in an interview with Rolling Stone, Lamar said the following about the record:

That was one of the hardest songs I had to write. There are some very dark moments in there. All my insecurities and selfishness and let-downs. That shit is depressing as a motherfucker. But it helps, though. It helps.



Anybody reading or listening who may be asking these questions of themselves, just remember: from u, you will eventually reach i.

In The Oral History of Kendrick Lamars To Pimp a Butterfly, Kendricks engineer MixedByAli described the recording of the song:

[The] session for U was very uncomfortable. [Lamar] wrote it in the booth. The mic was on and I could hear him walking back and forth and having these super angry vocals. Then hed start recording with the lights off and it was super emotional. I never asked what got into him that day.

On New Years Eve 2015, T.D.E. posted a video on their Vimeo user called: Kendrick Lamar  God Is Gangsta. This video is a 2-part music video for u and For Sale?. T.D.E.s verified Vimeo user was made specifically for this video. The video would later be posted on Youtube on January 13th of the next year.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
*Screaming*

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I place blame on you still, place shame on you still
Feel like you ain't shit, feel like you don't feel
Confidence in yourself, breakin' on marble floors
Watchin' anonymous strangers, tellin' me that I'm yours
But you ain't shit, I'm convinced your tolerance nothin' special
What can I blame you for? Nigga, I can name several
Situations, I'll start with your little sister bakin'
A baby inside, just a teenager, where your patience?
Where was your antennas?
Where was the influence you speak of?
You preached in front of one-hunnid-thousand but never reached her
I fuckin' tell you fuckin' failure—you ain't no leader!
I never liked you, forever despise you—I don't need ya!
The world don't need ya, don't let them deceive ya
Numbers lie too, fuck your pride too, that's for dedication
Thought money would change you, made you more complacent
Fuckin' hate you, I hope you embrace it, I swear—
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated
Loving you is complicated, loving you is complicated

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Lovin' you, lovin' you, not lovin' you, 100° proof
I can feel your vibe and recognize that you're ashamed of me
Yes, I hate you, too
[Break: Jessica Vielmas]
(Loving you ain't really complicated)
"Housekeeping, housekeeping"
(What I got to do to get to you?)
"¡Abre la puerta! ¡Abre la puerta tengo que limpiar el cuarto!"
(To you)
"¡Es que no hay mucho tiempo tengo que limpiar el cuarto!"
(Loving you ain't really complicated)
"¡Disculpe!"
(What I got to do to get to you?)
(To you)

[Beat Switch]
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
And you the reason why mom and them leavin'
No, you ain't shit, you say you love 'em, I know you don't mean it
I know you irresponsible, selfish, in denial, can't help it
Your trials and tribulations a burden, everyone felt it
Everyone heard it, multiple shots, corners cryin' out
You was deserted, where was your antennas again?
Where was your presence? Where was your support that you pretend?
You ain’t no brother, you ain’t no disciple, you ain’t no friend
A friend never leave Compton for profit, or leave his best friend, little brother
You promised you’d watch him before they shot him
Where was your antennas? On the road, bottles and bitches
You FaceTimed him one time, that's unforgiven
You even FaceTimed instead of a hospital visit
Guess you thought he'd recover well
Third surgery, they couldn't stop the bleeding for real
Then he died, God himself will say, "You fuckin' failed," you ain't try

[Break]
*Sniffling*

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I know your secrets, nigga, mood swings is frequent, nigga
I know depression is restin' on your heart for two reasons, nigga
I know you and a couple block boys ain't been speakin', nigga
Y'all damn near beefin', I see it and you're the reason, nigga
And if this bottle could talk *gulping*
I cry myself to sleep, bitch, everything is your fault
Faults breakin' to pieces, earthquakes on every weekend
Because you shook as soon as you knew confinement was needed
I know your secrets, don't let me tell 'em to the world
About that shit you thinkin' and that time you *gulping*, I'm 'bout to hurl
I'm fucked up, but I ain't as fucked up as you
You just can't get right, I think your heart made of bullet proof
Should've killed yo' ass long time ago
You should've felt that black revolver blast a long time ago
And if these mirrors could talk it'd say, "You gotta go"
And if I told your secrets the world'll know money can't stop a suicidal weakness450Embed

Title: DUCKWORTH.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-duckworth-lyrics
Song Description: DUCKWORTH. is a street tale about how Anthony Top Dawg Tiffith was planning a second robbery at a local KFC where Kendricks father, nicknamed Ducky, was working back in the 90s. The robbery could have resulted in Duckys death, but his generosity caused Top Dawg to refrain from harming him. This happened many years before Top Dawg would coincidentally sign a 15-year-old Kendrick to his label, Top Dawg Entertainment. Duckworth is Kendricks legal surname.

On the song untitled 02 | 06.23.2014, Kendrick touches on his relationship with Top and how dangerous he can be:

Me and Top is like a Kobe and Phil
A father figure, fuck with him, you get killed
Fuck with me and hell kill you himself

The producer, 9th Wonder, samples Ted Taylors 1978 song Be Ever Wonderful, Hiatus Kaiyotes 2015 track Atari, 1976s Ostavi Trag by September, 1975s Let the Drums Speak by the Fatback Band, and 1972s Mole on the Dole by Climax Blues Band.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Bēkon & Kid Capri]
It was always me versus the world
Until I found it's me versus me
Why, why, why, why?
Why, why, why, why?
Just remember, what happens on Earth stays on Earth!
We gon' put it in reverse

[Bridge: Ted Taylor]
Darling, I told you many times
And I am telling you once again
Just to remind you, sweetheart
That my—

[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
Oh, Lamar
Hail Mary and marijuana, times is hard
Pray with the hooligans, shadows all in the dark
Fellowship with demons and relatives, I'm a star
Life is one funny ma'fucker
A true comedian, you gotta love him, you gotta trust him
I might be buggin', infomercials and no sleep
Introverted by my thoughts; children, listen, it gets deep
See, once upon a time inside the Nickerson Garden projects
The object was to process and digest poverty's dialect
Adaptation inevitable: gun violence, crack spot
Federal policies raid buildings and drug professionals
Anthony was the oldest of seven
Well-respected, calm and collected
Laughin' and jokin' made life easier; hard times, mama on crack
A four-year-old tellin' his nanny he needed her
His family history: pimpin' and bangin'
He was meant to be dangerous, clocked him a grip and start slangin'
Fifteen, scrapin' up his jeans with quarter pieces
Even got some head from a smoker last weekend
Dodged a policeman, workin' for his big homie
Small-time hustler, graduated to a brick on him
Ten-thousand dollars out of a project housing, that's on the daily
Seen his first mill' twenty years old, had a couple of babies
Had a couple of shooters, caught a murder case
Fingerprints on the gun they assumin', but witnesses couldn't prove it
That was back when he turned his back and they killed his cousin
He beat the case and went back to hustlin'
Bird-shufflin', Anthony rang
The first in the projects with the two-tone Mustang, that 5.0 thing
They say 5-0 came, circlin' parking lots and parking spots
And hoppin' out while harrassin' the corner blocks
Crooked cops told Anthony he should kick it
He brushed 'em off and walked back to the Kentucky Fried Chicken
See, at this chicken spot, there was a light-skinned nigga that talked a lot
With a curly top and a gap in his teeth, he worked the window
His name was Ducky, he came from the streets, The Robert Taylor Homes
Southside Projects, Chiraq, the Terror Dome
Drove to California with a woman on him and five-hundred dollars
They had a son, hopin' that he'd see college
Hustlin' on the side with a nine-to-five to freak it
Cadillac Seville, he'd ride his son around on weekends
Three-piece special with his name on the shirt pocket
'Cross the street from the projects, Anthony planned to rob it
Stuck up the place before, back in '84
That's when affiliation was really at gears of war
So many relatives tellin' us, sellin' us devilish works, killin' us, crime
Intelligent, felonious prevalent proposition with 9's
Ducky was well-aware
They robbed the manager and shot a customer last year
He figured he'd get on these niggas' good sides
Free chicken every time Anthony posted in line, two extra biscuits
Anthony liked him and then let him slide, they didn't kill him
In fact, it look like they're the last to survive, pay attention
That one decision changed both of they lives, one curse at a time
Reverse the manifest and good karma, and I'll tell you why
You take two strangers and put 'em in random predicaments
Give 'em a soul, so they can make their own choices and live with it
Twenty years later, them same strangers, you make 'em meet again
Inside recording studios where they reapin' their benefits
Then you start remindin' them about that chicken incident
Whoever thought the greatest rapper would be from coincidence?
Because if Anthony killed Ducky, Top Dawg could be servin' life
While I grew up without a father and die in a gunfight
*Gunshot*
You might also like[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
Thgifnug a ni eid dna rehtaf a tuohtiw pu werg I elihW
Efil 'nivres eb dluoc gwaD poT ,ykcuD dellik ynohtnA fi esuaceB
Ecnedicnioc morf eb dluow reppar tsetaerg eht thguoht reveohW?
Tnedicni nekcihc taht tuoba meht 'nidnimer trats uoy nehT
Stifeneb rieht 'nipaer yeht erehw soiduts gnidrocer edisnI
Niaga teem me' ekam uoy ,sregnarts emas meht ,retal sraey ytnewT
Ti htiw evil dna seciohc nwo rieht ekam nac yeht os luos a me' eviG
Stnemaciderp modnar ni me' tup dna sregnarts owt ekat uoY
Yhw uoy llet ll'I dna ,amrak doog dna tsefinam eht esreveR
Emit a ta esruc eno ,sevil yeht fo htob degnahc noisiced eno tahT
Noitnetta yaP—
Erac tuB
—Tpecnoc etalucammi ,siht ekil eno ecnis retrauq eniacoC
AND ym edisni ytlayor tog ,ytlayoL
—Tog I ,tog I ,tog I ,tog I
So, I was takin' a walk the other day…

Title: The Heart Part 4
Release Date: March 23, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-heart-part-4-lyrics
Song Description: On The Heart Part 4, Kendrick Lamar floats across four distinct beat changes, describing his industrious lifestyle while challenging his contemporaries. He finishes the song with the line Yall got til April the 7th to get yall shit together, which is when TDE released the pre-order for his new album on iTunes. The song is Kendricks first single of 2017, which he initially teased in a now-deleted Instagram post the day before its release.

The sounds in the background at the beginning are present on DAMN.s seventh track, titled PRIDE. The first beat switch at the 1:20 minute-mark is taken from track twelve, titled FEAR., while the second transition at 1:38 is from track four, titled ELEMENT.
Lyrics:

[Chorus]
Don't tell a lie on me
I won’t tell the truth 'bout you
Don't tell a lie on me
I won’t tell the truth 'bout you

[Verse 1]
Thirty millions later, my future favors
The legendary status of a hip-hop rhyme savior
Travel round the atlas in this spaceship
Candy-coated, my day shift's
Been devoted to fuckin' up bundles of paper
Pi equals three-fourteen
The devil's pie is big enough to justify the whole thing
Wait up, lampin' in Jamaica
The clouds turnin', my thoughts turnin'
Burnin’ castor oil, yo I been determined to make an earnin’
This seed in this soil is classified
I'm satisfied when I strategize my kid’s future
I ain't sanctified enough to say that I won't shoot ya
I done vandalized the industry full circuit
The earthiest slash thirstiest nigga you know versus this
Scum of a land that transcend two surfaces
The richer the poorer, the bigger the picture
The more blood pours, but—
You might also like[Chorus]
Don't tell a lie on me
I won’t tell the truth 'bout you
Don't tell a lie on me
I won't tell the truth 'bout you
[Verse 2]
My fans can't wait for me to son ya punk-ass
And crush ya whole lil' shit
I'll Big Pun ya punk-ass, you a scared lil' bitch
Tiptoein' around my name, nigga, you lame
And when I get at you, homie
Don't you tell me you was just playin'
"Oh, I was just playin', K-Dot
C'mon, you know a nigga rock witchu, bro"
Shut the fuck up, you sound like the last nigga I know
Might end up like the last nigga I know
Oh, you don't wanna clash? Nigga, I know
I put my foot on the gas, head on the floor
Hoppin' out before the vehicle crash, I'm on a roll
Yellin', "One, two, three, four, five
I am the greatest rapper alive"
So damn great, motherfucker, I've died
What you hearin' now is a paranormal vibe
House on the hill, house on the beach, nigga (Facts)
A condo in Compton, I'm still in reach, nigga (Facts)
I'm fresh out the water, I'm 'bout to breach, nigga
The five-foot giant woke up out of his sleep, nigga
Oh yeah, oh yeah, mo' cars, mo' lears
Mo' bars, no peers, no scars, no fear—fuck y'all, sincere
I heard the whispers, I curved the whispers
You know what the risk is
Earthed in ditches, your body revertin' to stiffness
The whole world gone mad
Bodies is addin' up, market's about to crash
Niggas is fake rich, bitches is fake bad
Blacks that act white, whites that do the dab
Donald Trump is a chump
Know how we feel, punk—tell him that God comin'
And Russia need a replay button, y'all up to somethin'
Electorial votes look like memorial votes
But America's truth ain't ignorin' the votes
It's blasphemy, how many gon' blast for me?
I prophesized on my last song, you laughed at me
But when the shit get brackin', don't you ask for me
How many leaders gon' tell you the truth after me?
G Malone, big bro, kudos to him
I was two O's from a M, tryna be big as Em
Thirty millions later, my future favors
The legendary status of a hip-hop rhyme savior
Salmon and capers, fame and lawsuits
You lookin' at me in Chucks, I'm lookin' at y'all suits
Me and Top Dawg playin' rock-paper-scissors in court
A real hustler lose money just to go get some more
I said it's like that, dropped one classic, came right back
'Nother classic, right back
My next album, the whole industry on a ice pack
With TOC, you see the flames
In my E-Y-E's—it's not a game
And the whole world is goin' mad, daddy, it's sad, daddy
My only advice? Go and get you a bag, daddy
Lee Baca on trial tryna portray a boxer
Beatin' up on my niggas while the CO's watch him
Tables turned, lesson learned, my best look
You jumped sides on me, now you 'bout to meet Westbrook
Go celebrate witcha team and let victory vouch you
Just know, the next game played I might slap the shit out you
Technical foul, I'm flagrant, I'm foul
They throwin' me out, you throw in the towel
Look at the crowd, they— (Naw, I don't like that)
Look at my smile, I'm smirkin'
Calm but urgent (That ain't the style, fuck!)
So many verses, you live in denial (Fuck!)
So many verses, I never run out (What?)
You makin' him nervous, the music is loud
Ho, JAY-Z Hall of Fame, sit yo' punk-ass down!
(Sit yo punk-ass down)
So that means you ain't bigger than rapping (What else?)
So that means no more playin' the back scenes (What else?)
My spot is solidified if you ask me (What else?)
My name is identified as "That King"
I'll let y'all worry 'bout a list, I'm on some other shit
A difference between accomplishments and astonishments
You know what time it is, ante up, this is in forever
Y'all got 'til April the 7th to get y'all shit together
[Outro]
Let's get it!
Look, look!
On foenem304Embed

Title: The Art of Peer Pressure
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-art-of-peer-pressure-lyrics
Song Description: The song where the albums narrative truly begins to set itself in motion, Kendrick takes you through a vivid story of how he learned Peer Pressure the hard way.

This samples the song Helt Alene by the Danish group Suspekt.

The fact that their mission is to complete a robbery without getting caught is really bad. Kendrick thinks that he should never have to be in the position to have to complete this sort of mission, although hes influenced by his peers to think that this sort of mission is necessary when youre a teenage boy in Compton. Kendrick now sees how unnecessary this was, and how he fell into the traps of peer pressure, as opposed to staying strong and not follow through with these missions.

The title of the song is a play on the title of the popular treatise by Sun Tzu titled The Art of War. A lot of this album is a study of human conflict and the nature of violence.
Lyrics:

[Part I]

[Intro]
Everybody, everybody, everybody
Everybody sit yo bitch-ass down
And listen to this true mothafuckin' story
Told by Kendrick Lamar on Rosecrans, ya bitch

[Chorus]
Smokin' on the finest dope, ayy-ayy-ayy-ah
Drank until I can't no mo', ayy-ayy-ayy-ah
Really I'm a sober soul
But I'm with the homies right now
And we ain't askin' for no favors
Rush a nigga quick, then laugh about it later, ayy-ayy-ayy-ah
Really, I'm a peacemaker
But I'm with the homies right now
And Momma used to say (Say, say, say, say)
One day it's gon' burn you out (Woo)
One day it's gon' burn you out, out, out
One day it's gon' burn you out (You, you, you, you, you, you)
One day it's gon' burn you
But I'm with the homies right now

[Part II]
You might also like[Verse 1]
Me and my niggas four deep in a white Toyota
A quarter tank of gas, one pistol, an orange soda
Janky stash box when the federales'll roll up
Basketball shorts with the Gonzales Park odor
We on the mission for bad bitches and trouble
I hope the universe love you today
'Cause the energy we bringin' sure to carry away
A flock of positive activists that fill they body with hate
If it's necessary; bumpin' Jeezy first album, lookin' distracted
Speakin' language only we know, you think it's an accent
The windows roll down, all I see is a hand pass it
Hotboxin' like George Foreman grillin' the masses
Of the workin' world; we pulled up on a bunch of workin' girls
And asked them what they workin' with
Look at me, I got the blunt in my mouth
Usually I'm drug-free, but, shit, I'm with the homies
[Chorus 1]
Yeah, nigga, we off a pill and Rémy Red
Come through and bust ya head, nigga!
Me and the homies
Sag all the way to the liquor store
Where my niggas pour up 4 and get twisted some more
Me and the homies
I ride for my mothafuckin' niggas
Hop out, do my stuff, then hop back in
Me and the homies
Matter of fact, I hop out that mothafucka
And be like "doo-doo-doo-doot, doo-doo-doo-doo-doot!”
[Verse 2]
It's 2:30 and the sun is beamin'
Air conditioner broke and I hear my stomach screamin'
Hungry for anything unhealthy
And if nutrition can help me
I'll tell you to suck my dick, then I'll continue eatin'
We speedin' on the 405, passin' Westchester
You know, the light-skinned girls in all the little dresses
Good Lord, they knew we weren't from 'round there
'Cause every time we down there
We pullin' out the Boost Mobile SIM cards
Bougie bitches with no extensions
Hood niggas with bad intentions, the perfect combination
Before we sparked a conversation
We seen three niggas in colors we didn't like
Then started interrogatin'
I never was a gangbanger, I mean
I never was stranger to the fonk neither, I really doubt it
Rush a nigga quick and then we laugh about it
That's ironic, 'cause I've never been violent
Until I'm with the homies

[Chorus 2]
(Just ridin', just ridin')
Me and the homies
(Bullshittin', actin' a fool)
Me and the homies
(Trippin', really trippin')
Me and the homies
(Just ridin', just ridin', just ridin')
[Verse 3]
Braggin' 'bout the episode we just had
A shot of Hennessy didn't make me feel that bad
I'm usually a true firm believer of bad karma
Consequences from evil will make your past haunt ya
We tryna conquer the city with disobedience
Quick to turn it up, even if we ain't got the CD in
But Jeezy still playin'
And our attitude is still "nigga, what is you sayin'?"
Pull in front of the house
That we been campin' out for like two months
The sun is goin' down as we take whatever we want

[Break]
Ayy, ayy, nigga, jackpot, nigga, pop the safe!
Ayy, nigga, I think there's somebody in this room!
Wait, what?!
Nigga, there's somebody in this room!

[Verse 4]
I hit the back window in search of any Nintendo
DVD's, plasma-screen TV's in the trunk
We made a right, then made a left, then made a right
Then made a left, we was just circlin' life
My mama called: "Hello? What you doin'?" — "Kickin' it."
I shoulda told her I'm probably 'bout to catch my first offense
With the homies
(Police sirens)
But – they made a right, then made a left
Then made a right, then another right
One lucky night with the homies

[Outro]
K. Dot, you faded, hood?
Yeah, we finally got that nigga faded
I think he hit the wrong blunt though
Ooh, which one?
Well, which one he talkin' about?
I was finna hit the one with the shenanigans in it
I pray he ain't hit that
Nah, that nigga straight, he ain't hit that one
Got the shenanigans? Give that nigga the shenanigans!
Nigga, I think we should push back to the city, fo' real doe
Nigga, for what?
What that nigga— what's that Jeezy song say, nigga?
"Last time I checked I was the man on these streets!"
Yeah, yeah, that shit right there
I'm tryna be the nigga in the street
There he go. Man, you don't even know how the shit go
Look, here's the plan, luv
We gon' use the kickback as an alibi, wait 'til the sun go down, roll out, complete the mission, drop K. Dot off at his mama van, at the park
'Cause I know he tryna fuck on Sherane tonight
That's what he's not gon' do
Then we all gon' meet back at the block at about 10:30
That's straight, but we should meet up around 12
I'm tryna fuck on somethin' too
Nigga, sit yo dumb-ass back down!
Nigga, you ain't doin' shit tonight!
Matter of fact, nigga, get in the mothafuckin' car!
We finna get active!
[Produced by Tabu]

Title: How Much a Dollar Cost
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-how-much-a-dollar-cost-lyrics
Song Description: Up until this point in the album, Kendricks been plagued by Lucy & Uncle Sam. On his road to recovery, he runs into a homeless man at a gas station in South Africa.

He tells the story of a man asking for 10 Rand (approx. $1 USD). Initially, Kendrick says no and feels resentment as the man continues to berate him. After asking if hed read Exodus 14, Kendrick begins to feel guilty and sympathetic towards the man.

His selfishness, towards which he attributes his success, eventually comes out most in his interactions with the homeless man. At that point, the man reveals himself to be God  his selfishness and unwillingness to give the homeless man a dollar has cost him his place in Heaven. This revelation harks back to the parable of The Sheep and the Goat.

On December 9, 2015, President Obama named this record as his favorite of the year.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
How much a dollar really cost?
The question is detrimental, paralyzin' my thoughts
Parasites in my stomach keep me with a gut feeling, y'all
Gotta see how I'm chillin' once I park this luxury car
Hopping out feeling big as Mutombo
"20 on pump 6," dirty Marcellus called me Dumbo
Twenty years ago, can't forget
Now I can lend him a ear or two
How to stack these residuals tenfold
The liberal concept of what men'll do
"20 on 6," he didn't hear me
Indigenous African only spoke Zulu
My American tongue was leery
Walked out the gas station
A homeless man with a semi-tan complexion
Asked me for ten Rand, stressin' about dry land
Deep water, powder blue skies that crack open
A piece of crack that he wanted, I knew he was smokin'
He begged and pleaded
Asked me to feed him twice, I didn't believe it
Told him, "Beat it"
Contributin' money just for his pipe—I couldn't see it
He said, "My son, temptation is one thing that I've defeated
Listen to me, I want a single bill from you
Nothin' less, nothin' more"
I told him I ain't have it and closed my door
Tell me, how much a dollar cost?
You might also like[Chorus: James Fauntleroy]
It's more to feed your mind
Water, sun and love, the one you love
All you need, the air you breathe

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
He's starin' at me in disbelief
My temper is buildin', he's starin' at me, I grab my key
He's starin' at me, I started the car, then I tried to leave
And somethin' told me to keep it in park until I could see
The reason why he was mad at a stranger
Like I was supposed to save him
Like I'm the reason he's homeless and askin' me for a favor
He's starin' at me, his eyes followed me with no laser
He's starin' at me, I notice that his stare is contagious
'Cause now I'm starin' back at him, feelin' some type of disrespect
If I could throw a bat at him, it'd be aimin' at his neck
I never understood someone beggin' for goods
Askin' for handouts, takin' it if they could
And this particular person just had it down pat
Starin' at me for the longest until he finally asked
"Have you ever opened up Exodus 14?
A humble man is all that we ever need"
Tell me, how much a dollar cost?
[Chorus: James Fauntleroy]
It's more to feed your mind
Water, sun and love, the one you love
All you need, the air you breathe
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Guilt trippin' and feelin' resentment
I never met a transient that demanded attention
They got me frustrated, indecisive and power trippin'
Sour emotions got me lookin' at the universe different
I should distance myself, I should keep it relentless
My selfishness is what got me here, who the fuck I'm kiddin'?
So I'ma tell you like I told the last bum
Crumbs and pennies, I need all of mines
And I recognize this type of panhandlin' all the time
I got better judgment, I know when nigga's hustlin', keep in mind
When I was strugglin', I did compromise, now I comprehend
I smell Grandpa's old medicine, reekin' from your skin
Moonshine and gin, nigga, you're babblin', your words ain't flatterin'
I'm imaginin' Denzel but lookin' at O'Neal
Kazaam is sad thrills, your gimmick is mediocre
The jig is up, I seen you from a mile away losin' focus
And I'm insensitive, and I lack empathy
He looked at me and said, "Your potential is bittersweet"
I looked at him and said, "Every nickel is mines to keep"
He looked at me and said, "Know the truth, it'll set you free
You're lookin' at the Messiah, the son of Jehovah, the higher power
The choir that spoke the word, the Holy Spirit
The nerve of Nazareth, and I'll tell you just how much a dollar cost
The price of having a spot in Heaven, embrace your loss—I am God"
[Outro: Ronald Isley]
I washed my hands, I said my grace
What more do you want from me?
Tears of a clown, guess I'm not all what it's all meant to be
Shades of grey will never change if I condone
Turn this page, help me change to right my wrongs
[Produced by LoveDragon]

Title: These Walls
Release Date: October 13, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-these-walls-lyrics
Song Description: The title These Walls plays off the familiar expression if these walls could talk Kendricks complex wordplay introduces layered metaphorical and literal wallsthe walls of a womans vagina, the walls of a prison cell, and ultimately the walls of his mind and conscience. Kendrick uses this conceit to explore sex, abuse, his own career, his enemies, and the human psyche.

The song narrates Kendrick having sex with a woman who has children with a man in jail for killing one of Kendricks friends. Kendrick views this as an act of revenge for his slain friend, but he also has a bad conscience about using his fame and power to seduce someone for that purpose.

Ultimately these walls represent being imprisoned by the entire situation: an allegory for a cycle of murder, lust, seduction, revenge and guilt.



Kendrick said These Walls was one of his favorites on the album: Its a record that I always wanted to make but didnt know how to make.

Vandalizing these walls only if they could talk
 Never Catch Me by Flying Lotus

Kendrick may have been hinting at this track in Never Catch Me by Flying Lotus.

These Walls won Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 58th Annual Grammy Awards.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Terrace Martin & Larrance Dopson; Additional production by Sounwave]
[Directed by Colin Tilley & The Little Homies]

[Poem: Kendrick Lamar]
I remember you was conflicted, misusing your influence
Sometimes, I did the same
[Intro: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
If these walls could talk
If these walls could talk
If these walls could talk
If these walls could talk
If these walls could talk
If these walls could talk—
Sex
[Verse 1: Anna Wise & Kendrick Lamar]
She just wanna close her eyes and sway
With you, with you, with you (Ah, come on)
Exercise her right to work it out
It's true, it's true, it's true
Shout out to the birthday girls
Say hey (Hey), say hey (Hey, ah, girl)
Everyone deserves a night to play (Play)
She plays, only when you tell her no
You might also like[Chorus: Anna Wise, Thundercat, & Bilal]
If these walls could talk
I can feel your reign when it cries, gold lives inside of you
If these walls could talk
I love it when I'm in it, I love it when I'm in it (Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh)
Oh, oh
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
These walls could talk, they'd tell me to swim good
No boat, I float better than he would
No life jacket, I'm not the God of Nazareth
But your flood can be misunderstood
Walls tellin' me they full of pain, resentment
Need someone to live in 'em just to relieve tension
Me, I'm just a tenant
Landlord said these walls vacant more than a minute
These walls are vulnerable, exclamation
Interior pink, color coordinated
I interrogated every nook and cranny
I mean, it's still amazing, before, they couldn't stand me
These walls wanna cry tears
These walls happier when I'm here
These walls never could hold up
Every time I come around, demolition might crush

[Chorus: Anna Wise, Thundercat, & Bilal]
If these walls could talk
I can feel your reign when it cries, gold lives inside of you
If these walls could talk
I love it when I'm in it, I love it when I'm in it (Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh)
Oh, oh
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
These walls could talk, they'd tell me to go deep
Yellin' at me continuously, I can see
Your defense mechanism is my decision
Knock these walls down, that's my religion
Walls feelin' like they ready to close in
I suffocate, then catch my second wind
I resonate in these walls
I don't know how long I can wait in these walls
I've been on the streets too long
Lookin' at you from the outside in
They sing the same old song
About how they walls always the cleanest
I beg to differ, I must've missed them
I'm not involved, I'd rather diss 'em
I'd rather call on you, put your wall up
'Cause when I come around, demolition gon' crush

[Chorus: Anna Wise, Thundercat, & Bilal]
If these walls could talk
I can feel your reign when it cries, gold lives inside of you
If these walls could talk
I love it when I'm in it, I love it when I'm in it (Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh)
Oh, oh
[Instrumental Break]
[Verse 4: Kendrick Lamar]
If your walls could talk, they'd tell you it's too late
Your destiny accepted your fate
Burn accessories and stash 'em on the yard
Take the recipe, the Bible and God
Wall tellin' you that commissary is low
Race wars happenin', no callin' CO
No callin' your mother to save you
Homies to say you're irrepetible, not acceptable
Your behavior is Sammy the Bull like
A killer that turned snitch
Walls is tellin' me you a bitch
You pray for appeals hopin' the warden would afford them
That sentence so important
Walls tellin' you to listen to "Sing About Me"
Retaliation is strong, you even dream 'bout me
Killed my homeboy and God spared your life
Dumb criminal got indicted same night
So when you play this song, rewind the first verse
About me abusin' my power so you can hurt
About me and her in the shower whenever she horny
About me and her in the after hours of the morning
About her baby daddy currently servin' life
And how she think about you until we meet up at night
About the only girl cared about you when you asked her
And how she fuckin' on a famous rapper
Walls can talk (Talk)

[Poem: Kendrick Lamar]
I remember you was conflicted
Misusing your influence
Sometimes I did the same
Abusing my power, full of resentment
Resentment that turned into a deep depression
Found myself screaming in a hotel room286Embed

Title: HiiiPoWeR
Release Date: April 12, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-hiiipower-lyrics
Song Description: The first song released from Kendrick Lamars Section.80, HiiiPower talks of self enlightenment through reflection and active work. It constantly touches on racial subjects, figures and conspiracy theories of today and the past.

On the official tracklist, the title is stylized as HiiiPoWeR. The second half of that can be separated into Po We R (Poor we are) which is a huge motif throughout the album. Poverty is one of the largest issues plaguing those living in projects as referenced in Section 8(0) of the Housing Act of 1937.

As described at the end of Cut You Off (To Grow Closer) (From his mixtape, O.D.), Hiii Power is a way of thinking with higher expectations, and achieving richness in body and mind. Essentially a quest for knowledge and wisdom of the body, mind and spirit.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Everybody put three fingers in the air
The sky is falling, the wind is calling
Stand for something or die in the morning
Section.80, HiiiPoWeR

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Visions of Martin Luther staring at me
Malcolm X put a hex on my future, someone catch me
I'm falling victim to a revolutionary song, the Serengeti's clone
Back to put you backstabbers back on your spinal bone
You slipped your disc when I slid you my disc
You wanted to diss, but jumped on my dick
Grown men never should bite their tongue
Unless you eatin' pussy that smell like it's a stale plum
I got my finger on the motherfuckin' pistol
Aimin' it at a pig, Charlotte's web is gonna miss you
My issue isn't televised and you ain't gotta tell the wise
How to stay on beat, because our life's an instrumental
This is physical and mental, I won't sugarcoat it
You'd die from diabetes if these other niggas wrote it
And everything on TV just a figment of imagination
I don't want a plastic nation, dread that like a Haitian
While you motherfuckers waiting, I be off the slave ship
Building pyramids, writing my own hieroglyphs
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Just call the shit HiiiPoWeR
Nigga, nothing less than HiiiPoWeR
Five-star dishes, food for thought, bitches
I mean this shit is
Huey Newton going stupid, you can't resist his
HiiiPoWeR
Throw your hands up for HiiiPoWeR

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Visions of Martin Luther staring at me
If I see it how he seen it, that would make my parents happy
Sorry, mama, I can't turn the other cheek
They wanna knock me off the edge like a fuckin' widow's peak, uh
And she always told me pray for the weak, uh
Them demons got me, I ain't prayed in some weeks, uh
Dear Lord, come save me, the devil's working hard
He probably clockin' double shifts on all of his jobs
Frightenin', so fuckin' frightenin'
Enough to drive a man insane, I need a license to kill
I'm standing on a field full of land mines
Doin' the moonwalk, hopin' I blow up in time
'Cause 2012 might not be a fuckin' legend
Tryna be a fuckin' legend, the man of mankind
Who said a Black man in the Illuminati?
Last time I checked, that was the biggest racist party
So get up off that slave ship
Build your own pyramids, write your own hieroglyphs
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Just call the shit HiiiPoWeR
Nigga, nothing less than HiiiPoWeR
Five-star dishes, food for thought, bitches
I mean this shit is
Bobby Seale makin' meals, you can't resist his
HiiiPoWeR
Throw your hands up for HiiiPoWeR

[Bridge: Alori Joh & (Kendrick Lamar)]
Every day, we fight the system just to make our way
We been down for too long, but that's alright
We was built to be strong, 'cause it's our life, na-na-na
Every day, we fight the system, we fight the system
We fight the system (Never like the system)
We been down for too long, but that's alright, na-na-na

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Who said a Black man in the Illuminati?
Last time I checked, that was the biggest racist party
Last time I checked, we was racin' with Marcus Garvey
On the freeway to Africa 'til I wreck my Audi
And I want everybody to view my autopsy
So you can see exactly where the government had shot me
No conspiracy, my fate is inevitable
They play musical chairs once I'm on that pedestal
Frightenin', so fuckin' frightenin'
Enough to drive a man insane, a woman insane
The reason Lauryn Hill don't sing, or Kurt Cobain
Loaded that clip and then said bang
The drama it bring is crazy, product of the late '80s
Tryna stay above water, that's why we shun the Navy
Pull your guns and play me, let's set it off
'Cause a riot, throw a Molotov
Somebody told me them pirates had got lost
'Cause we been off them slave ships
Got our own pyramids, write our own hieroglyphs
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Just call the shit HiiiPoWeR
Yeah, nothing less than HiiiPoWeR
Five-star dishes, food for thought, bitches
I mean this shit is
Fred Hampton on your campus, you can't resist his
HiiiPoWeR
Throw your hands up for HiiiPoWeR

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
Thug life
Thug life
[Produced by J. Cole]

Title: Rigamortis
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-rigamortis-lyrics
Song Description: From Team Kendrick:

When rigor mortis occurs within a corpse, its muscles tighten, causing the body to become stiff and very difficult to move. The chemical reaction makes all blood gravitate to the areas of the body that are closest to the ground, leaving colorful spots as an indication of life that once existed. As the soul escapes, toxins remain causing the corpse to rot and decompose. This is the fate that Kendrick Lamar has deemed onto the competition, more commonly known as your favorite rapper. Amen!
Death can be so beautiful at times. Boasting bars as mad as Marilyn Manson, one grim rapper emerges to hold hip hop ransom. Hailing from Compton, Los Angeles, one of Americas most neglected graveyards, Kendrick yields his sickle (ballpoint pen) to pry open the caskets of lyricism, musicianship, and tradition. The emcee, once known as K. Dot, hence displays an air of irony in his verses, murdering the fraudulent with the same weapon used for shedding light on realness.
Section.80 was released in the first week of July and continues to receive steady rotation from barbershop stereos to iPods on college campuses. A clear game changer, his debut album is dynamic in the sense that it brings forth the story of a generation incubated in the years of Reaganomics, while projecting the rebellious voice of a youth discontented by societys harsh inflictions.
Directors, The ICU caught up with Kendrick Lamar at various locations throughout New York City to shoot this highly anticipated video off of Section 80. Accompanied by a triumphant three piece brass section, this funeral procession is not a mournful event, but rather a triumphant proclamation for a resurrecting art form. Chuuuch!

This track samples the Jazz composition The Thorn off of Willie Jones IIIs album Next Phase.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Alright, here we go, third take
Real quick, Ali
Mmm

[Chorus]
Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson with madness
Now just imagine the magic I light to asses
Don't ask for your favorite rapper
(He dead), yes, sir (Amen), church
(He dead), I killed him (Amen), bitch

[Verse 1]
And this is rigor mortis and it's gorgeous when you die
Ali recorded and I'm Morpheus, the matrix of my mind
I'm out the orbit, you an orphan and a hairdresser combined
I'm on the toilet when I rhyme, if you the shit, then I decline
I climax where you begin and then I end on cloud nine
And that's important when you morph into an angel in the sky
And don't be forging all my signatures, my listeners reply
And tell me that you biting style, you got a hell of an appetite
And I'ma be here for a while, just buckle up before the ride
Or knuckle up if you can fight, we always making 'em duck or die
A suit and tie is suitable and usual in suicide
CSI just might investigate this fucking parasite
(He dead, amen)
That's what they telling me
Aim it at your celebrity, this is studio felony
Ferragami so many and cool enough for the '70s
Nigga, payback's a bitch, and bitch, you been livin' in debt with me
Dead 'em all and especially
Leave a call on his mother voicemail that say that he rest in peace
Bigger chopper the recipe
Wrestling? That's irrelevant, rather rest at your residence
Whistling to the melody, couldn't think of a better D
Better be on your P and Q, it's just me, Jay Rock, Soul, and Q
Solar system and barbecue, nothing else you can do
You might also like[Chorus]
(He dead), yup-yup (Amen), I killed him
(He dead, amen), amen
Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson, don't ask for your favorite rapper
(He dead), yup-yup (Amen), I know
(He dead), for sure (Amen), amen
Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson, don't ask for your favorite rapper
[Verse 2]
I wrapped him and made him Casper, I capture the likes of NASA
My pedigree to fly past ya, I'll pass the weed to the pastor
We all are sinners, won't you send us to Bible study faster?
Your hypocritist reaction a blasphemy, I assassin my casualty
And it's casually done, and tell 'em my salary come
In lump sum one hundreds, don't talk to me 'bout no money
The sun is under my feet, and I come in peace to compete
I don't run if you'd rather leap, my statistics go up in weeks
And I go visit the nearest creek, and I get busy on many MC
Really ballistic, anybody can see
Any assistance, everybody deceased
Some persistence, recognize I be
Really too vicious, the permanent beast
And the demolition breaking up the street
Better partition, better dot your T
And I gon' mention how the far you see
Putting my dick in the rap industry
Everybody bitching, getting mad at me
Recognize Kendrick in the battery
And I'm charged up, and the catastrophe
Is charged up, and the audacity
Of y'all fucks never could hassle me
And y'all luck just ran out, you'll see
[Chorus]
(He dead), yup-yup (Amen), I know
(He dead), for sure (Amen), amen
Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson, don't ask for your favorite rapper
(He dead), yup-yup (Amen), I know
(He dead), for sure (Amen), amen285Embed

Title: Hood Politics
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-hood-politics-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick states in his poem that he dealt with survivors guilt by reiterating to himself that he earned his success and stayed true to his A-1 foundation.

Hood Politics is just this  Kendrick giving us the outlook, again, of when he was a child/adolescent and didnt have the knowledge he has now. This is a progression and also a contrast from the last song, Momma. The last song was about how he forgot how it was to be in the hood. This is him transporting himself to a time when the hood was all he knew.

Kendricks delivery on this track is at a higher pitch than normal to signify his younger self, his past, and his roots. On the record, he discusses issues such as American politics in the second verse and the rap industry in the third verse, with the latter being based on his observations of the stir caused in response to his Control verse.

Kendrick previewed the first two verses of this song on a freestyle with Big Boy on 92.3 FM. This song samples Sufjan Stevens' All For Myself. Legendary Funk bassist George Clinton, who was featured in Wesleys Theory, remarked that this song was his favorite on the album.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Tae Beast, Sounwave & Thundercat]
[Intro: Dr. Dre]
K-Dot, pick up the phone, nigga
Every time I call, it's going to voicemail
Don't tell me they got you on some weirdo rap shit, nigga
No socks and skinny jeans and shit, ha
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-haha
Call me on Shaniqua's phone!

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I been A-1 since day one, you niggas boo-boo
Your home boy, your block that you're from, boo-boo
Lil' hoes you went to school with, boo-boo
Baby mama and your new bitch, boo-boo
We was in the hood, fourteen with the deuce-deuce
Fourteen years later, going hard like we used to
On the dead homies
On the dead homies
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I don't give a fuck about no politics in rap, my nigga
Our lil' homie Stunna Deuce ain't never comin' back, my nigga
So you better go hard every time you jump on wax, my nigga
Fuck what they talkin' 'bout, your shit is where it's at, my nigga
Came in this game, you stuck your fangs in this game
You wore no chain in this game, your hood, your name in this game
Now you double up, time to bubble up the bread and huddle up
Stickin' to the scripts, now, here, if them Benjamins go cuddle up
Skip, hop, drip, drop
Flip, flop with the white tube sock
It goes, "Sherm sticks, burn this"
That's what the product smell like when the chemicals mix
50-nigga salute, out the Compton zoo, with the extras
El Co's, Monte Carlos, Road Kings, and dressers
Rip Ridaz, P-Funkers, Mexicans, they fuck with you
Asians, they fuck with you, nobody can fuck with you
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I been A-1 since day one, you niggas boo-boo
Your homeboy, your block that you're from, boo-boo
Lil' hoes you went to school with, boo-boo
Baby mama and your new bitch, boo-boo
We was in the hood, fourteen with the deuce-deuce
Fourteen years later, going hard like we used to
On the dead homies
On the dead homies
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Hopped out the Caddy, just got my dick sucked
The little homies called and said, "The enemies done cliqued up"
Oh, yeah? Puto want to squabble with mi barrio?
Oh, yeah? Tell 'em they can run it for the cardio
Oh, yeah? Everything is everything, it's scandalous
Slow motion for the ambulance, the project filled with cameras
The LAPD gamblin', scramblin', football numbers slanderin'
Niggas' names on paper—you snitched all summer
Streets don't fail me now
They tell me it's a new gang in town
From Compton to Congress
Set-trippin' all around
Ain't nothin' new but a flu of new Demo-Crips and Re-Blood-icans
Red state versus a blue state—which one you governin'?
They give us guns and drugs, call us thugs, make it they promise to fuck with you
No condom, they fuck with you, Obama say, "What it do?"
[Interlude: Kendrick Lamar]
Obama say, "What it do?"
Obama say, "What it do?"
Obama say, "What it do?"

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I been A-1 since day one, you niggas boo-boo
Your homeboy, your block that you're from, boo-boo
Lil' hoes you went to school with, boo-boo
Baby mama and your new bitch, boo-boo
We was in the hood, fourteen with the deuce-deuce
Fourteen years later, going hard like we used to
On the dead homies
On the dead homies

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Everybody want to talk about who this and who that
Who the realest and who wack, or who white or who black
Critics want to mention that they miss when hip-hop was rappin'
Motherfucker, if you did, then Killer Mike'd be platinum
Y'all priorities fucked up, put energy in wrong shit
Hennessy and Crown Vic, my memory been gone since
Don't ask about no camera blocking at award shows
No, don't ask about my bitch, no, don't ask about my Vogues
'Less you askin' me about power, yeah, I got a lot of it
I'm the only nigga next to Snoop that can push the button
Had the Coast on standby
"K. Dot, what up? I heard they opened up Pandora's box"
I box 'em all in, by a landslide
Nah, homie, we too sensitive, it spill out to the streets
I make the call and get the Coast involved, then history repeats
But I resolved inside that private hall while sitting down with Jay
He said, "It's funny how one verse can fuck up the game"
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I been A-1 since day one, you niggas boo-boo
[Poem: Kendrick Lamar]
I remember you was conflicted
Misusing your influence
Sometimes I did the same
Abusing my power full of resentment
Resentment that turned into a deep depression
Found myself screaming in a hotel room
I didn't want to self-destruct
The evils of Lucy was all around me
So I went running for answers
Until I came home
But that didn't stop survivors guilt
Going back and forth
Trying to convince myself the stripes I earned
Or maybe how A-1 my foundation was
But while my loved ones was fighting a continuous war
Back in the city
I was entering a new one237Embed

Title: Black Friday
Release Date: November 27, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-black-friday-lyrics
Song Description: This song is a counterpart to J. Coles rhyme over K.Dots Alright  both freestyles were released simultaneously on November 27, 2015. The two rappers have long been associated, as friends and musical collaborators. They have often hinted at dropping a collaborative project, though this has yet to come to fruition.

Kendricks release received widespread love, with some music fans suggested Lamar renegaded Cole on his own beat. The MC tackled trending topics like Kanye Wests bid for Presidency, Billboards top 10 rappers of all time list, and his claim to hip-hops throne. His first release since the critically acclaimed To Pimp a Butterfly, it employs a markedly lighter, though nonetheless [un]mistakable, approach.

https://twitter.com/JColeNC/status/670358893738913792
Lyrics:

[Produced By Vinylz]
[Intro]
Dick hard like rottweiler
Can you handle it? Can you handle it? Woo woo, woo woo
[Verse]
The whole industry been in shambles
Everybody fugazi, I’m just changing the channel
Kendrick Lamar, the people’s champion, I'm animal for analysts
Career damaging verses, meditating with candles lit
I like my raps extra prolific
Since freestyling on lunch tables and park benches
And I won’t mention my 10,000 hours in training
While juggling, gang-banging, my balancing was tremendous
And now we look at the competition as quick submission
They tappin’ out before we even get a chance to miss ‘em
What this about, is it money or skill?
Maybe it’s both and I got large amounts of it, it’s real
You see my oath is very unbreakable, my style is never mistakable
I can see y’all incapable
To be the God emcees, you know me well
Ridiculous, venomous, hate in my heart, the sinister
Run for cover, my lineage prove itself
I’m rollin’ deep in that paper like two Adeles
Before scholars, I flowed tighter than virgin lips
We here to shake the game up and you're flying through turbulence
Everything is high stakes nowadays, that’s how it played nowadays
It’s like an 8-ball to the face nowadays
I'm laced nowadays, my gun is off the waist nowadays
It’s seven figures and retainer for the case nowadays, I'm talking
Higher power, every other hour since Eddie Bauer
Since stash boxes and lead showers, breaking the padlock
And the dead coward dying a thousand deaths, entire lion
Surround itself with bears, watch it nigga, you share a profit, ah!
This is what they want, I’m the one
This is vintage from 1980 somethin'
I’m the son of the pioneer that got you near the sun
Play with him, bitch you better off voting for Donald Trump
I’m yelling Mr. Kanye West for president
He probably let me get some head inside the residence
I’m in the White House going all out
Bumping College Dropout, God bless Americans
Nothing more influential than rap music
I merge jazz fusion with the trap music
I mix black soul with some rock and roll
They never box me in, I’m David Blaine-ing all you hoes
Oh yea, let’s go there, my DNA is DMT, I’m so rare
My Juvenile was wilder than the Nolia
A locomotive couldn’t track me down in my career
Runnin’ this shit with four pair, son of my bitch, I might demolish
A bitch right in front ya, chico, what have you done here?
D-Bo, all of it one year, Mississippi to California
It gets annoying, niggas wanna deplore him
And bitches wanna adore him, but industry shit ain’t for him
Probably thinking it’s for him, only one me
Swallowed the key and kicking the door in, never leasing my foreign
Mr. Valevictorian studied the game before them
Listen to you with boredom, baby rappers, abort them
To the grave I deport them, corporations extort them
I’m snapping off my endorphins, I alien mighty morphin’
My radiance rather gorgeous, hundred bill to the doorman
Hundred mil' in my fortune, they call me back in the morning
You're racing against the tortoise, pace myself it’s important
Lace myself with the wisdom my playerism enormous
So pay the man for performance, saucy all of my garments
Jimi Kendrix performing, this fucking studio haunted (Ah!)
I tell a bitch don’t sweat me (Don't sweat me)
I kill this whole fuckin’ beat if Cole let me (Please Cole)
Ib should’ve never sent the instrumental
Every time I start writing I get sentimental
This shit is just not fair
But why the fuck should I care?
The story of your life here
Two young stars was born and y’all gon’ die here
Oh Lord, gotta be the yams
Billboard list need 2Pac, damn
But number 9 makes sure he lives on, yeah
Hoochie, coochie, pussies in a trance
Every day a celebration, but even the valley peaking me
Is not validation, nigga this TDE
And my doggies be salivating, salaries, better ratings
And casualties all around me, don’t make me do demonstrations
Whoa
Murder my allegations and burning my finger traces
Adjourning my power patience and earning royalty payments
I’m sorry y’all not relating, this party is reservated
I kill this whole muthafucking beat if J. Cole say it
My nigga Ib chopped the instrumental, I gotta slay it
I gotta lay it, gotta show you fuckers I’m not to play with
The ruckus had been my favorite, King Kunta the fuckin’ greatest
Whoa
Burnin’ my leather-
(Nah I’m just fuckin’ wit cha)
You might also like[Kayla Duckworth: Laugh]

Title: Sherane a.k.a Master Splinter’s Daughter
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-sherane-aka-master-splinters-daughter-lyrics
Song Description: The story opens as a flash-forward. K.Dot has known Sherane for a number of months by this point. He met her at a party where they flirted and exchanged numbers. They kept in contact with each other over the summer and got to know each other pretty well. He also talks about her familys history of gang-banging that made him wary but didnt stop him from hooking up with her.
At the end of this song K.Dot is driving to Sheranes house in his Mothers van, he has sex on the brain. But when he turns up Sherane is outside waiting with two dudes in black hoodies (possibly her two younger brothers, or her cousins, one of which could be Demetrius).

This isnt the first time Kendrick has evoked the humanoid rat father-figure of the Teenage Mutant Turtles, Master Splinter. See: The Heart Pt. 2

The Master Splinter part of the title likely signifies Sheranes hoodrat status.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Lord God, I come to you a sinner
And I humbly repent for my sins
I believe that Jesus is Lord
I believe that You raised him from the dead
I would ask that Jesus come to my life
And be my Lord and Savior
I receive Jesus to take control of my life
And that I may live for him from this day forth
Thank you, Lord Jesus, for saving me with your precious blood
In Jesus' name, amen

[Verse]
I met her at this house party on El Segundo and Central
She had the credentials of strippers in Atlanta
Ass came with a hump, from the jump she was a camel
I want to ride like Arabians, push an '04 Mercedes-Benz
"Hello, my name is Kendrick," she said, "No, you're handsome"
Whispered in my ear, disappeared, then found her dancin'
Ciara had played in the background
The parade music we made had us all wearin' shades now, cool
"Where you stay?" She said, "Down the street from Dominguez High"
Okay, I know that's borderline Compton or Paramount
"Well, is it Compton?" "No," she replied
Then quickly start battin' her eyes
I strictly had wanted her thighs around me
Seventeen with nothin' but pussy stuck on my mental
My motive was rather sinful, "What you tryna get into?"
She didn't tell, just gave me her Nextel
Dropped the number, we chirped the whole summer, and, well
The summer had passed, and now I'm likin' her
Conversation we havin' probably enticin' her
Who can imagine? Maybe my actions'll end up wifin' her
Love or lust, regardless, we'll fuck 'cause the trife in us
It's deep-rooted, the music of bein' young and dumb
Is never muted, in fact, it's much louder where I'm from
We know a lot 'bout each other, her mother was a crack addict
She live with her granny and her younger two brothers
Her favorite cousin Demetrius is irrepetible
Family history of gangbangin' did make me skeptical
But not enough to stop me from gettin' a nut
"I wanna come over, what's up?"
That's what I told her soon as this episode
Of Martin go off, I'm tryna get off
I was in heat like a cactus
My tactics of bein' thirsty probably could hurt me
But fuck it, I got some heart
Grabbed my mama keys, hopped in the car, then, oh boy
So now I'm down Rosecrans in a Caravan
Passin' Alameda, my gas meter in need of a pump
I got enough to get me through the traffic jam
At least I hope, 'cause my pockets broke as a promise, man
I'm thinkin' 'bout that sex
Thinkin' 'bout her thighs or maybe kissin' on her neck or maybe what position's next
Sent a picture of her titties, blowin' up my texts
I looked at 'em and almost ran my front bumper into Corvette
Enthused by the touch of a woman, she's a masseuse
And I'm a professional pornstar when off the Goose
I had a fifth in the trunk like Curtis Jackson for ransom
I'm hopin' to get her loose like an Uncle Luke anthem
I'm two blocks away, two hundred and fifty feet
And six steps from where she stay, she wavin' me 'cross the street
I pulled up, a smile on my face, and then I see
Two niggas, two black hoodies, I froze as my phone rang
You might also like[Outro]
Please leave your message for three-two-three
Record your message after the tone
Kendrick, where you at?
Damn, I'm sittin' here waitin' on my van
You told me you was gon' be back in fifteen minutes
Man, I gotta go up to the county buildin', man, these kids ready to eat
I'm ready to eat, shit
I gotta get them food stamps, come on now
You on your way or what?
I hope you ain't out there messin' with them damn hoodrats out there, shit
'Specially that lil' crazy-ass girl Sherane
And plus you got school tomorrow
You keep fuckin' around in them streets, you ain't gon' pass to the next grade
Eleventh grade
(Is that Kendrick on the phone?)
Your daddy callin' about some damn dominoes (Let me holler at him)
He want to holler at you too, go ahead, Kenny, go'n, shit
Hello? Yak, where my motherfuckin' dominoes at?
(Kenny), What?
I'm on his voicemail, damn fool (Oh), shit
Yak, where my motherfuckin' dominoes at?
This the second time I asked you to bring my fuckin' dominoes
Just give me the damn phone, shit, don't hang up, damn, let me
Kendrick, when you get this message, man, call me back (Keep losin' my goddamn dominoes, we gon' have to go in the backyard)
I need to know when you gon' bring back my damn car (And squab, homie)
This man fussin' 'bout some damn dominoes
It ain't all that serious, fuck, damn dominoes
Shit, I'ma miss my damn appointment, fuck
Fuck some damn dominoes, nobody wanna hear that
Nobody wanna hear your ass
Matter fact, cut my motherfuckin' oldies back on
You killin' my motherfuckin' vibe150Embed

Title: FEEL.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-feel-lyrics
Song Description: On FEEL., Kendrick catalogs the wide range of feelings, particularly the negative ones, that his stardom has elicited.

He feels like nobody is looking out for him, yet cites a strong desire to isolate himself from friends and family. He boasts about his status in music, but notes that the very same industry that he dominates is full of toxicity. Despite having been at the peak of his critical and commercial success over the past few years, Kendrick continues to grapple with emotional, interpersonal, and spiritual problems.

Kendrick routinely explores the darker sides of his life on his musicdepression and self-hate are several things that hes discussed before.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar & Chelsea Blythe]
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
(Ain't nobody prayin' for me)
(Ain't nobody prayin' for me)
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
(Nobody prayin' for me)
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
Ain't nobody—(Prayin' for me)
(Nobody prayin' for me)

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I feel like a chip on my shoulders
I feel like I'm losin' my focus
I feel like I'm losin' my patience
I feel like my thoughts in the basement
Feel like, I feel like you're miseducated
Feel like I don't wanna be bothered
I feel like you may be the problem
I feel like it ain't no tomorrow, fuck the world
The world is endin', I'm done pretendin'
And fuck you if you get offended
I feel like friends been overrated
I feel like the family been fakin'
I feel like the feelings are changin'
Feel like my thought of compromise is jaded
Feel like you wanna scrutinize how I made it
Feel like I ain't feelin' you all
Feel like removin' myself, no feelings involved
I feel for you, I've been in the field for you
It's real for you, right? Shit, I feel like—
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
Ain't nobody prayin'

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I feel niggas been out of pocket
I feel niggas tappin' they pockets
I feel like debatin' on who the greatest can stop it
I am legend, I feel like all of y'all is peasants
I feel like all of y'all is desperate
I feel like all it take is a second to feel like
Mike Jordan whenever holdin' a real mic
I ain't feelin' your presence
Feel like I'ma learn you a lesson
Feel like only me and the music though
I feel like your feelin' ain't mutual
I feel like the enemy you should know
Feel like the feelin' of no hope
The feelin' of bad dope
A quarter ounce manipulated from soap
The feelin', the feelin' of false freedom
I'll force-feed 'em the poison that fill 'em up in the prison
I feel like it's just me
Look, I feel like I can't breathe
Look, I feel like I can't sleep
Look, I feel heartless, often off this
Feelin' of fallin', of fallin' apart with
Darkest hours, lost it
Fillin' the void of bein' employed with ballin'
Streets is talkin', fill in the blanks with coffins
Fill up the banks with dollars
Fill up the graves with fathers
Fill up the babies with bullshit
Internet blogs and pulpit, fill 'em with gossip
I feel like this gotta be the feelin' where 'Pac was
The feelin' of an apocalypse happenin'
But nothin' is awkward, the feelin' won't prosper
The feelin' is toxic, I feel like I'm boxin' demons
Monsters, false prophets schemin'
Sponsors, industry promises
Niggas, bitches, honkies, crackers, Compton
Church, religion, token blacks in bondage
Lawsuit visits, subpoena served in concert
Fuck your feelings, I mean this for imposters
I can feel it, the phoenix sure to watch us
I can feel it, the dream is more than process
I can put a regime that forms a Loch Ness
I can feel it, the scream that haunts all logic
I feel like sayin' somethin', I feel like takin' somethin'
I feel like skatin' off, I feel like waitin' for 'em
Maybe it's too late for 'em
I feel like the whole world want me to pray for 'em
But who the fuck prayin' for me?
[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
Ain't nobody prayin' for me
Who prayin' for me?
Ain't nobody prayin'

Title: N95
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-n95-lyrics
Song Description: N95 is the second track on Kendrick Lamars fifth and final studio album with Top Dawg Entertainment, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers. The songs title refers to N95 face masks, which have been one of the several key tools adopted to contrast the COVID-19 pandemic. Throughout this track, Kendrick addresses futile and superficial coping mechanisms, while pointing out at the facades a lot of people have acquired, which he also discussed on the previous song from the album, United in Grief.

Some fans interpreted phrases like Youre back outside, but they still lied and the refrain take off as the artists criticism of the way the U.S. government (first under Donald Trump, and then under Joe Biden) handled the state of emergency in response to the pandemic. However, in the wider context of the whole album, these references are more likely metaphors not just for peoples hypocrisy and clout chase, but for Kendricks own pretense and facade, as well, as he took them off in order to confront his ugliness and experience the first phases of his healing process.

This songs bridge, alongside the first half of the third verse, were originally meant to appear on Baby Keems vent, but Kendrick ended up only providing vocals on the chorus.

In September of 2020, Kendrick was spotted filming a music video for this song, hovering over the beach. Two years later, hours after the albums release, Dave Free teased the music video on his Twitter with a clip from the aforementioned shoot; Kendricks posture closely resembles that of Jesus Christ on the cross. This coincides with the religious themes found on Mr. Morale, as well as the cover art, where Kendrick is depicted wearing a crown of thorns.

On May 14, 2022, just a day after the release of Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers, the official music video was shared on YouTube.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Hello, new world, all the boys and girls
I got some true stories to tell
You're back outside, but they still lied
Woah-oh-oh-oh (Yeah)

[Verse 1]
Take off the foo-foo, take off the clout chase, take off the Wi-Fi
Take off the money phone, take off the car loan, take off the flex and the white lies
Take off the weird-ass jewelry, I'ma take ten steps, then I'm taking off top five
Take off them fabricated streams and them microwave memes, it's a real world outside (Take that shit off)
Take off your idols, take off the runway, I take off to Cairo (Take that shit off)
Take off to Saint-Tropez, five-day stay, take a quarter mil', hell if I know (Take that shit off)
Take off the front flag, take off perception, take off the cop with the eye patch (Take that shit off)
Take off the unloyal, take off the unsure, take off decisions I lack (Take it off)
Take off the fake deep, take off the fake woke, take off the, "I'm broke, I care" (Take it off)
Take off the gossip, take off the new logic that if I'm rich, I'm rare (Take it off)
Take off the Chanel, take off the Dolce, take off the Birkin bag (Take it off)
Take all that designer bullshit off, and what do you have?

[Chorus]
Bitch, huh, huh, ugh
You ugly as fuck (You outta pocket)
Huh, two ATMs (Hah, hah, hah, hah)
You steppin' or what? (You outta pocket, huh)
Who you think they talk about?
Talk about us (You outta pocket—shoot, shoot, shoot)
Who you think they copy off? (Brrt, brrt, brrt, brrt)
Copy off us (Get back in pocket)
You might also like[Verse 2]
The world in a panic, the women is stranded, the men on a run
The prophets abandoned, the law take advantage, the market is crashin', the industry wants
Niggas and bitches to sleep in a box while they makin' a mockery followin' us
This ain't Monopoly, watchin' for love, this ain't monogamy, y'all gettin' fucked
Jumpin' on what the hell is that? I gotta relax when I feel (Huh, facts)
All my descendants, they come in my sleep and say I am too real (Huh, facts)
I'm done with the sensitive, takin' it personal, done with the black and the white, the wrong and the right
You hopin' for change and clericals, I know the feelings that came with burial's cries

[Chorus]
Bitch, huh, huh, ugh
You ugly as fuck (You outta pocket)
Huh, two ATMs (Hah, hah, hah, hah)
You steppin' or what? (You outta pocket, huh)
Who you think they talk about?
Talk about us (You outta pocket—shoot, shoot, shoot)
Who you think they copy off? (Brrt, brrt, brrt, brrt)
Copy off us

[Bridge]
Servin' up a look, dancin' in a drought
Hello to the big stepper, never losin' count
Ventin' in the safe house
Ventin' in the sa—
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar & Baby Keem]
Can I vent all my truth? I got nothin' to lose, I got problems and pools, I can swim on my faith
Cameras movin' whenever I'm movin', the family suin' whatever I make
Murder is stackin', the president actin', the government taxin' my funds in the bank
Homies attracting the feds when I'm bracking, look at my reaction, my pupils on skates (Hold up, hold up)
Let's think about this for a second (Let's go)
Tell me what you would do for aesthetic (Let's go)
Would you sell your soul on credit? (Let's go)
Would you sell your bro for leverage? (Let's go)
Where the hypocrites at?
What community feel they the only ones relevant? (Let's go)
Where the hypocrites at?
What community feel they the only ones relevant? (Let's go)

[Outro]
Huh, huh, ugh
You outta pocket, yeah, you outta pocket (This shit hard)
You entertain the mediocre, need to stop it (This shit hard)
You entertainin' old friends when they toxic (This shit hard)
What your life like? Bullshit and gossip (This shit hard)
What the fuck is cancel culture, dawg?
Say what I want about you niggas, I'm like Oprah, dawg
I treat you crackers like I'm Jigga, watch, I own it all
Oh, you worried 'bout a critic? That ain't protocol (Bitch)

Title: LUST.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-lust-lyrics
Song Description: LUST. can be seen as Kendrick Lamars perspective on the repetetive nature of life. Centered around themes of sexual intimacy, Kendrick explores the monotonous routine of daily life for men, women, and those with fame and wealth, respectively. These lifestyles often involve desire of all forms.

In the second verse, Kendrick self-reflects on the unquenchable lust people in his position have for luxury; whether its unlimited sex, the ability to party with no consequence, or relief from financial burden. Ultimately, LUST. furthers the themes and narratives present throughout DAMN.especially as one of the Seven Deadly Sins, alongside PRIDE.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I need some water
Something came over me
Way too hot to simmer down, might as well overheat
Too close to comfort
As blood rush my favorite vein
Heartbeat racing like a junkie's
I just need you to want me
Am I asking too much?
Let me put the head in
Ooh, I don't want more than that; girl, I respect the cat
I promise, just a touch
Let me put the head in
If it's okay; she said, "It's okay"

[Interlude: Kendrick Lamar & RAT BOY]
Yeah, I need everybody's motherfuckin' hands up right now
I need everybody's motherfuckin'—
Door and his Nike Air Rattles
Rush the fire exit, no time for battles
Well I, I never expected
This that new shit
This that new, new shit

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Wake up in the mornin', thinkin' 'bout money, kick your feet up
Watch you a comedy, take a shit, then roll some weed up
Go hit you a lick, go fuck on a bitch
Don't go to work today, cop you a fit
Or maybe some kicks and make you—
You might also like[Interlude: RAT BOY]
Door and his Nike Air Rattles
Rush the fire exit, no time for battles
Well I, I never expected

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Wake up in the morning, thinking 'bout money, kick your feet up
Watch you a comedy—hol' up
Wake up in the mornin', thinkin' 'bout money, kick your feet up
Watch you a comedy, take a shit, then roll some weed up
Go hit you a lick, go fuck on a bitch, don't go to work today
Cop you a fit or maybe some kicks and make it work today
Hang with the homies, stunt on your baby mama
Sip some lean, go get a pistol, shoot out the window
Bet your favorite team, play you some Madden
Go to the club or your mama house
Whatever you doing, just make it count (I need some water)
Wake up in the morning, thinking 'bout money, kick your feet up
Hop in the shower, put on your makeup, lace your weave up
Touch on yourself, call up your nigga, tell him he ain't shit
Credit card scam, get you a Visa, make it pay your rent
Hop on the 'Gram, flex on the bitches that be hatin' on you
Pop you a pill, call up your bitches, have 'em waitin' on you
Go to the club, have you some fun, make that ass bounce
It's whatever, just make it count
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I need some water
Something came over me
Way too hot to simmer down, might as well overheat
Too close to comfort
As blood rush my favorite vein
Heartbeat racing like a junkie's
I just need you to want me
Am I asking too much?
Let me put the head in
Ooh, I don't want more than that; girl, I respect the cat
I promise, just a touch
Let me put the head in
If it's okay; she said, "It's okay"
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I wake in the morning, my head spinning from the last night
Both in a trance, feelings are dead—what a fast life
Manager called, the lobby call is 11:30
Did this before, promised myself I'd be a hour early
Room full of clothes, bag full of money: call it loose change
Fumbled my jewelry, 100K, I lost a new chain
Hop on the bird, hit the next city for another M
Take me a nap, then do it again
We all woke up, tryna tune to the daily news
Looking for confirmation, hoping election wasn't true
All of us worried, all of us buried, in our feelings deep
None of us married to his proposal, make us feel cheap
Stale and sad, distraught and mad, tell the neighbor 'bout it—
Bet they agree, parade the streets with your voice proudly
Time passing, things change
Reverting back to our daily programs, stuck in our ways
Lust
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Lately, I feel like I been lusting over the fame
Lately, we lust on the same routine of shame
Lately (Lately) Lately, my lust been heightened (Lately)
Lately, it's all contradiction (Lately, I'm not here)
Lately, I lust over self (Lust turn into fear)
Lately, in James 4:4 says
"Friend of the world is enemy of the Lord"
Brace yourself: Lust is all yours

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I need some water
Something came over me
Way too hot to simmer down, might as well overheat
Too close to comfort
As blood rush my favorite vein
Heartbeat racing like a junkie's
I just need you to want me
Am I asking too much?
Let me put the head in
Ooh, I don't want more than that; girl, I respect the cat
I promise, just a touch
Let me put the head in
If it's okay; she said, "It's okay"

Title: ​untitled 02 | 06.23.2014.
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-02-06232014-lyrics
Song Description: This track is about Kendricks confliction between his life at home in Compton and his life as a global superstar.

In 2014, he was prophesying the success of To Pimp a Butterfly which scooped five Grammy awards in early 2016. Yet at the same time, he was troubled by the bloodshed and incarceration of his peers still trapped in the ghettos of Compton.

While he is separated and distracted by the fruits of his labour: the women, money, and fame, he realises the only way he can find a balance between the industry and the Compton homies he left behind is through TDE (Top Dawg Entertainment). His team has become his solace, and hell ride for them, the same as he would for those back home.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Pimp-pimp (Hooray)
Pimp-pimp (Hooray)
(Hooray)
Pimp-pimp (Hooray)
Pimp-pimp

[Pre-Chorus]
I'm sick and tired of being tired
Can't pick a side, the Gemini
Prophesize if we live or not
Promise momma not to fear nobody
Seen black turn 'em Burgundy
Hundred of them, I know I'm greedy
Stuck inside the belly of the beast
Can you please pray for me?

[Chorus]
Get God on the phone
Said it won't be long
I see jigaboos, I see Styrofoams
My hood going brazy
Where did we go wrong?
I see jigaboos, I see Styrofoams
Get Top on the phone
[Verse 1]
Tell the squad come home
We gon' ball again 'fore he call us home
World is going brazy, where did we go wrong?
It's a tidal wave, it's a thunderdome
Get God on the phone
I just got a raise (I just got a raise)
Spent it all on me (I spent it all on me)
Diamonds all appraised (Diamonds all appraised)
And I'm bossing up (And I'm bossing up)
Bitch, get out the way (Bitch, get out the way)
I'm the only way, we can fornicate
Ah, pimping and posing, look what I drove in, ah
Having these hoes and I know that I'm chosen, ah
I live by the code and me and my bros and, ah
My dollars ain't foldin', you was never the homie

[Pre-Chorus]
Seen black turn 'em Burgundy
Hundred of them, I know I'm greedy
Stuck inside the belly of the beast
Can you please pray for me?

[Chorus]
Get God on the phone
Said it won't be long
I see jigaboos, I see Styrofoams
My hood going brazy
Where did we go wrong?
I see jigaboos, I see Styrofoams
Get Top on the phone
(What's up, my nigga?)
You might also like[Verse 2]
Cornrow Kenny, he was born with a vision
All morning with the mixed dashboards, triple digits
Parallel park like an alien came visit
Slideshow for the night show, ten bitches
Find hoes with a blindfold, King Kendrick
(Hello, Billy)
So many plays, homie, I finesse
Palisade views with some sex
I lost a lot of love for missionary
This the first time I confess
Me and Top is like a Kobe and Phil
A father figure fuck with him, you get killed
Fuck with me and he will kill you himself
TDE the mafia of the west
Move in silence, yeah, we juggin’ like that
Act of violence, yeah, we juggin’ like that
I did a lot of dumb shit in my past
Lord forgive me, hoping I don't relapse
Dave just bought a new 911
Almost thought I’d seen another plane crash
Q just bought a brand new McLaren
Rock-a-lack about to buy the projects
Moosa got his son dripping in gold
Ali 'bout to let his hair down on hoes
Me, I'm 'bout to let my hair down on hoes
Top billin', that’s a million a show
Might blow the whole no whammy on Soul
Might tell Obama be more like Punch
Sounwave caught a Grammy last year
Mack wop, bet he do what he want
Fuck you niggas, level two, I'm not done
2Teez told me that I'm the one
I can put a rapper on life support
Guarantee that's something none of you want
Ten homies down and they all serving life
What is like twenty-five hundred a month?
What if I empty my bank out and stunt?
What if I certified all of these ones?
Bitch, I get buck, I'm as real as they come
Shit is amazing, I'm feeding my cravings
You know that you want me, come here now, lil' baby
I'm fuckin', I'm crazy
Serving it like I belong in the basement
Or live at the Days Inn
Yan Yan my relative, black cherry soda
Pistol and poverty, come get to know us
(Get Top on the phone)
[Outro]
Who doing the drums?
Man put that nigga on the drums man
Yep, all day, "Mortal Man" and "Kunta"
Alright, from the top170Embed

Title: The Recipe
Release Date: April 3, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-recipe-lyrics
Song Description: The first promotional single for Kendrick Lamars major label debut, good kid, m.A.A.d city, is a Scoop DeVille-produced ode to the West Coast. It introduces the world to the three W"s that California specializes in: women, weed, and weather.

Kendrick and Dr. Dre explained the meaning behind the song during an April 2012 interview with Big Boy on Power 106 FM:

The Recipe, its one of those things that everyone in the world can relate to Thats the three things you need in life; thats the recipe you need in life

Dr. Dre added:

The original title was Women, Weed and Weather. Thats what represents L.A.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Scoop DeVille]
[Intro]
(Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to)
[Verse 1: Dr. Dre]
Every morning when I wake up, uh
Money on my mind, good time to get caked up, uh
Sunshine coming through my blinds, I’m living, but
Really though, it's never enough, ten million, that's a must
Living in California, everybody wanna visit for

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Dr. Dre]
Women, weed and weather
They come for  women, weed and weather
For the women, weed and weather
From all around the world for the women, weed and weather

[Verse 2: Dr. Dre]
These niggas'll kill for that, put it in your grill for that
Still everybody gotta build for that, me? I make mills off that
How the fuck y'all can't see I ride, when I drive
Down the block and you look outside
H-A-T-E in your eyes, I enter big money for the enterprise
It's a beautiful day, I guess, for a bitch to roll with Andre, I guess
Roll it up, baby, come and lift that dress
Then roll it up for me when I'm stressed
You might also like[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
You might catch me in Atlanta looking like a boss
New Orleans and then Miami, party in New York
Texas, I be screwed up, Chi-Town, I be really pimpin'
But nothing like my hometown, I'll forever live in

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Dr. Dre]
Women, weed and weather
They come for women, weed and weather
For the women, weed and weather
From all around the world for the women, weed and weather
Got that women, weed and weather
Don't it sound clever? Come and play
Wh-what more can I say? W-welcome to LA

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Uhh, my nigga said he wanna fly out to get him some
Three W's only for a three-day run, bitch
Take them mothafuckin' panties off, you ain't no nun, shit
I be living in the sky every time I ride by them hoes
"Ribbon In The Sky" on the radio 'cause Stevie know I control
Let it breathe, I control, California living 'til I am old
You want to be on to peak on the charts
So the peons can be gone and pee on their hearts
She in the coupe, she in the Neon
'Cause she on the BS before we can start
Fuck with a nigga, ride with a nigga
Let 'em know I'm priority, order me
Hennessy and, for my niggas, OG Killa
Call it Jason Voorhees, boy, he's on his job
Boy, he sure be having the marks on they mark
Pretty bitches and tire marks, let 'em inhale them pipe exhausts
Let 'em reveal how much it cost for this life, controlling my price?
No way, hell no, uh-uh
If I'm wrong, I don't wanna be right
We want to be on to peak on the charts
So the peons can be gone and pee on their hearts
Women, weed, weather, it's not my fault
That it's 82 degrees and my top peeled off
[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
You might catch me in Atlanta looking like a boss
New Orleans and then Miami, party in New York
Texas, I be screwed up, Chi-Town, I be really pimpin'
But nothing like my hometown, I'm forever livin'

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Dr. Dre]
Women, weed and weather
They come for women, weed and weather
For the women, weed and weather
From all around the world for the women, weed and weather
Got that women, weed and weather
Don't it sound clever? Come and play
Wh-what more can I say? W-welcome to LA

[Verse 4: Dr. Dre]
Known for that homegrown where I come from
Smoke one, palm trees, double D's got 'em topless in the sun
I shall proceed, that's me, mothafuck your opinion
Huh, how many ways am I killing 'em? Shit, right around a billion
We on it, that mean we living for the moment
That mean she'll fuck 'til the morning, time and I got time
And I know that I'm in a position of controlling
Anything out by that ocean
I'm a boss, I'll buy that ocean, ain't nobody fucking with this
[Verse 5: Kendrick Lamar]
They want that shit, they often fiend
I give it to 'em, but in between
My time, I gotta tie shoestrings
Life's a trip when you want these things
I often slip and then I lean
Toward three W's in life
You know blow job need an application
And eating pussy make appetite
And yeah, my type, I like 'em brown
Just like my drink, the fuck you think?
I don't fuck with no hand-me-downs
See if you fuck, then it's after me
You know how much I'ma make it work?
You know her dress livin' in her purse
When you discuss your love for lust
Just make sure you visit here first: Cali

[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
You might catch me in Atlanta looking like a boss
New Orleans and then Miami, party in New York
Texas, I be screwed up, Chi-Town, I be really pimpin'
But nothing like my hometown, I'll forever live in

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Dr. Dre]
Women, weed and weather
They come for women, weed and weather
For the women, weed and weather
From all around the world for the women, weed and weather
Got that women, weed and weather
Don't it sound clever? Come and play
Wh-what more can I say? W-welcome to LA

[Outro]
(Smokin' weed with you
In the leaves, in the fall
I smoke with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
In the leaves, in the fall
I smoke with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you
'Cause you've taught me to
Smokin' weed with you)

Title: For Free? (Interlude)
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-for-free-interlude-lyrics
Song Description: Building on the metaphor drawn in Wesleys Theory, we find Kendrick continuing to fall victim to the pimps of the record industry.

This interlude is very similar to the song Tramp by Otis Redding, also featuring a girl dissing our favorite artist.



During a Twitter Q&A Kendrick cited this as his favorite song off the album:

https://twitter.com/kendricklamar/status/588498568064802818
Lyrics:

[Produced by Terrace Martin]

[Intro: Darlene Tibbs]
Fuck you, motherfucker, you a ho-ass nigga
I don't know why you trying to go big, nigga, you ain't shit
Walking around like you God's gift to Earth, nigga, you ain't shit
You ain't even buy me no outfit for the Fourth
I need that Brazilian, wavy, twenty-eight inch, you playin'
I shouldn't be fuckin' with you anyway
I need a baller-ass, boss-ass nigga
You's a off-brand-ass nigga, everybody know it
Your homies know it, everybody fuckin' know
Fuck you, nigga, don't call me no more
You won't know, you gonna lose on a good bitch
My other nigga is on, you off
What the fuck is really going on?
[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
This dick ain't free
You lookin' at me like it ain't a receipt
Like I never made ends meet
Eating your leftovers and raw meat
This dick ain't free
Livin' in captivity raised my cap salary
Celery, tellin' me green is all I need
Evidently, all I seen was Spam and raw sardines
This dick ain't free, I mean, baby
You really think we could make a baby named Mercedes
Without a Mercedes Benz and twenty-four-inch rims
Five percent tint, and air conditioning vents?
Hell fuckin' naw, this dick ain't free
I need forty acres and a mule
Not a forty ounce and a pitbull
Bullshit, matador, matador
Had the door knockin', let 'em in, who's that?
Genital's best friend, this dick ain't free
Pity the fool that made the pretty in you prosper
Titty juice and pussy lips kept me obnoxious
Kept me up watchin' pornos in poverty; apology? No
Watch you politic with people less fortunate, like myself
Every dog has its day, now doggy style shall help
This dick ain't free
Matter of fact, it need interest
Matter of fact, it's nine inches
Matter of fact, see our friendship based on business
Pension, more pension, you're pinchin' my percents
It's been relentless, fuck forgiveness, fuck your feelings
Fuck your sources, all distortion, if you fuck it's more abortion
More divorce courts and portion
My check with less endorsement left me dormant
Dusted, doomed, disgusted, forced with
Fuck you think is in more shit?
Porcelain pipes pressure, bust 'em twice
Choice is devastated, decapitated the horseman
Oh America, you bad bitch, I picked cotton and made you rich
Now my dick ain't free
You might also like[Outro: Darlene Tibbs]
I'ma get my Uncle Sam to fuck you up
You ain't no king165Embed

Title: Institutionalized
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-institutionalized-lyrics
Song Description: While King Kunta shows Lamar at a high, confidently claiming his throne atop the rap game with the influence and success he has acquired, Institutionalized is the dramatic realization that the murky past of the m.A.A.d. city still lurks within Lamars psyche. Kendrick covers wealths corruptive powers, and how many people are negatively affected, almost brainwashed, by the idea of getting rich.

He also condemns violence and envy. Both of these are brought on by the institution of money. We are all at some level institutionalized. The poor and disenfranchised are institutionalized by prison, racism, classism, and the rich and the powerful are institutionalized by fear, dogma, and the almighty dollar. Everyone is a loser in this game, perspective is the only answer.

The word institutionalized also has connotations of insanity. Those who are institutionalized are taught something is wrong with them, but perhaps its the institution thats wrong.
Lyrics:

[Part I]
[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
What money got to do with it
When I don't know the full definition of a rap image?
I'm trapped inside the ghetto and I ain't proud to admit it
Institutionalized, I keep runnin' back for a visit, hol' up
Get it back
I said I'm trapped inside the ghetto and I ain't proud to admit it
Institutionalized, I could still kill me a nigga, so what?

[Interlude: Anna Wise & Bilal]
If I was the president
I'd pay my mama's rent
Free my homies and them
Bulletproof my Chevy doors
Lay in the White House and get high, Lord
Whoever thought?
Master, take the chains off me!

[Part II]

[Intro: Taz Arnold]
Zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom
Zoom, zoom, zoom
Zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom
Zoom, zoom, zoom
Zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom
Zoom, zoom, zoom
Zoom, zoom, zoom, shit
You might also like[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Life, can be like, a box of chocolate
Quid pro quo, somethin' for somethin', that's the obvious
Oh shit, flow's so sick, don't you swallow it
Bitin' my style, you're salmonella poison positive
I can just alleviate the rap industry politics
Milk the game up, never lactose intolerant
The last remainder of real shit, you know the obvious
Me, scholarship? No, streets put me through colleges
Be all you can be, true, but the problem is
Dream only a dream if work don't follow it
Remind me of the homies that used to know me, now follow this
I'll tell you my hypothesis, I'm probably just way too loyal
K Dizzle will do it for you, my niggas think I'm a god
Truthfully all of 'em spoiled, usually, you're never charged
But somethin' came over you once I took you to them fuckin' BET Awards
You lookin' at artistses like they're harvestses
So many Rollies around you and you want all of 'em
Somebody told me you thinkin' 'bout snatchin' jewelry
I should've listened when my grandmama said to me:

[Chorus: Bilal]
"Shit don't change until you get up and wash yo' ass, nigga
Shit don't change until you get up and wash yo' ass, boy
Shit don't change until you get up and wash yo' ass, nigga
Oh now, slow down"
[Bridge: Snoop Dogg]
And once upon a time, in a city so divine
Called West Side Compton, there stood a little nigga
He was five-foot somethin', God bless the kid
Took his homies to the show and this is what they said:
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
"Fuck am I 'posed to do when I'm lookin' at walkin' licks?
The constant big money talk 'bout the mansion and foreign whips
The private jets and passport, presidential glass floor
Gold bottles, gold models, givin' up the ass for
Instagram flicks, suckin' dick, fuck is this?
One more sucker wavin' with a flashy wrist
My defense mechanism tell me to get him
Quickly because he got it
It's a recession, then why the fuck he at King of Diamonds?
No more livin' poor, meet my four-four
When I see 'em, put the per diem on the floor
Now Kendrick, know they're your co-workers
But it's gon' take a lot 'fore this pistol go cold turkey
Now I can watch his watch on the TV and be okay
But see I'm on the clock once that watch landin' in LA
Remember steal from the rich and givin' it back to the poor?
Well, that's me at these awards"
I guess my grandmama was warnin' a boy
She said
[Chorus: Bilal]
"Shit don't change until you get up and wash yo' ass, nigga
Shit don't change until you get up and wash yo' ass, boy
Shit don't change until you get up and wash yo' ass, nigga
Oh now, slow down"

[Outro: Snoop Dogg]
And once upon a time, in a city so divine
Called West Side Compton, there stood a little nigga
He was five-foot something, dazed and confused
Talented but still under the neighborhood ruse
You can take your boy out the hood
But you can't take the hood out the homie
Took his show money, stashed it in the mozey wozey
Hollywood's nervous
Fuck you, goodnight, thank you much for your service220Embed

Title: YAH.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-yah-lyrics
Song Description: The song title YAH. refers to Yahweh (), which is believed to be the closest estimation to Gods actual namein Hebrew, it was said as YHWH, as they had no vowels in their script at the time. Jews used Adonai so they didnt use Gods name in vain. The letters AOA were put in YHWH, and became YAHOWAH. Kendrick referred to Yeshua on the previous song, DNA, and in his guest verse on DJ Khaleds Holy Key.

This song makes other religious references as well, mentioning the Israelites and the book of Deuteronomy from the Bible.

Like the two previous songs, BLOOD. and DNA., this song references the Fox News segment that criticized his Alright performance at the 2015 BET Awards.  This time, however, Kendrick goes one step further and directly calls out reporter Geraldo Rivera.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kid Capri]
New shit, new Kung Fu Kenny

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I got so many theories and suspicions
I'm diagnosed with real nigga conditions
Today is the day I follow my intuition
Keep the family close, get money, fuck bitches
I double-parked the Aston in the red
My momma told me that I'ma work myself to death
My girl told me don't let these hoes get in my head
My world been ecstatic, I checked the signal that read—

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Buzzin', radars is buzzin'
Yah, yah, yah, yah
Yah, yah, yah, yah, yah, yah
Buzzin', radars is buzzin'
Yah, yah, yah, yah
Yah, yah, yah, yah, yah, yah

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Interviews wanna know my thoughts and opinions
Fox News wanna use my name for percentage
My latest muse is my niece, she worth livin'
See me on the TV and scream: "That's Uncle Kendrick!"
Yeah, that's the business (Uno)
Somebody tell Geraldo this nigga got some ambition
I'm not a politician, I'm not 'bout a religion
I'm a Israelite, don't call me black no mo'
That word is only a color, it ain't facts no mo'
My cousin called, my cousin Carl Duckworth
Said know my worth
And Deuteronomy say that we all been cursed
I know He walks the Earth
But it's money to get, bitches to hit, yah
Zeroes to flip, temptation is, yah
First on my list, I can't resist, yah
Everyone together now, know that we forever—
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Buzzin', radars is buzzin'
Yah, yah, yah, yah
Yah, yah, yah, yah, yah, yah
Buzzin', radars is buzzin'
Yah, yah, yah, yah
Yah, yah, yah, yah, yah, yah97Embed

Title: The Heart Part 5
Release Date: May 8, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-heart-part-5-lyrics
Song Description: The Heart Part 5 is the fifth installment in Kendrick Lamars The Heart series. It serves as a promotional single for Mr. Morale and the Big Steppers, Lamars fifth studio album, and comprises his first solo release since April 2017s DAMN.

The tracks existence was first teased on April 19, 2022, when Lamars website was updated with a page entitled theheart. On May 7, 2022, the song was accidentally teased by Spotify through an updated description for their This is Kendrick Lamar playlist, but it was removed shortly thereafter.

On May 8, 2022, at 5 P.M. (Los Angeles time) the song was officially released alongside the music video. The visuals see Kendrick performing in front of a red wall before making several transformations into other famous Black figures using deepfake technology. In order of appearance, they are O.J. Simpson, Kanye West, Jussie Smollett, Will Smith, Kobe Bryant and Nipsey Hussle.

This song was added as a bonus track to Mr. Morale and the Big Steppers exactly two weeks after the album dropped.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
As I get a little older, I realize life is perspective
And my perspective may differ from yours
I wanna say thank you to everyone that's been down with me
All my fans, all my beautiful fans
Anyone who's ever gave me a listen, all my people

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I come from a generation of pain, where murder is minor
Rebellious and Margielas'll chip you for designer
Belt buckles and clout, overzealous if prone to violence
Make the wrong turn, be it will or the wheel alignment
Residue burned, mist of the inner-city
Miscommunication to keep homi' detective busy
No protection is risky
Desensitized, I vandalized pain, covered up and camouflaged
Get used to hearin' arsenal rain
Analyze, risk your life, take the charge
Homies done fucked your baby mama once you hit the yard
That's culture
Twenty-three hour lockdown, then somebody called
Said your lil' nephew was shot down, the culture's involved
I done seen niggas do seventeen, hit the halfway house
Get out and get his brains blown out, lookin' to buy some weed
Car wash is played out, new GoFundMe accounts'll proceed
A brand-new victim'll shatter those dreams
The culture
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar with Marvin Gaye]
(I want, I want, I want, I want)
But I want you to want me too (I want, I want, I want, I want)
I want the hood to want me back (I want, I want, I want, I want)
I want the hood
Look what I done for you (Look what I done for you)
Look what I done for you

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I said I do this for my culture
To let y'all know what a nigga look like in a bulletproof Rover
In my mama's sofa was a doo-doo popper
Hair trigger, walk up closer, ain't no Photoshoppin'
Friends bipolar, grab you by your pockets
No option if you froze up, always play the offense
Niggas goin' to work and sellin' work, late for work
Workin' late, prayin' for work, but he on paperwork
That's the culture, point the finger, promote ya
Remote location, witness protection, they gon' hold ya
The streets got me fucked up, y'all can miss me
I wanna represent for us
New revolution was up and movin'
I'm in Argentina wiping my tears, full of confusion
Water in between us, another peer's been executed
History repeats again
Make amends, then find a nigga with the same skin to do it
But that's the culture, crack a bottle
Hard to deal with the pain when you're sober
By tomorrow, we forget the remains, we start over
That's the problem
Our foundation was trained to accept whatever follows
Dehumanized, insensitive
Scrutinize the way we live for you and I
Enemies shook my hand, I can promise I'll meet you
In the land where no equal is your equal
Never say I ain't told ya, nah
In the land where hurt people hurt more people
Fuck callin' it culture
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar with Marvin Gaye]
(I want, I want, I want, I want)
But I want you to want me too (I want, I want, I want, I want)
I want the hood to want me back (I want, I want, I want, I want)
I want the hood
Look what I done for you (Look what I done for you)
Look what I done for you

[Interlude: Kendrick Lamar]
Take the drums out

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Celebrate new life when it come back around
The purpose is in the lessons we learnin' now
Sacrifice personal gain over everything
Just to see the next generation better than ours
I wasn't perfect, the skin I was in had truly suffered
Temptation, impatience, everything that the body nurtures
I felt the good, I felt the bad, and I felt the worry
But all-in-all, my productivity had stayed urgent
Face your fears, always knew that I would make it here
Where the energy is magnified and persevered
Consciousness is synchronized and crystal-clear
Euphoria is glorified and made His
Reflectin' on my life and what I done
Paid dues, made rules, change outta love
Them same views made schools change curriculums
But didn't change me starin' down the barrel of the gun
Should I feel resentful I didn't see my full potential?
Should I feel regret about the good that I was into?
Everything is everything, this ain't coincidental
I woke up that morning with more heart to give you
As I bleed through the speakers, feel my presence
To my brother, to my kids, I'm in Heaven
To my mother, to my sis, I'm in Heaven
To my father, to my wife, I am serious, this is Heaven
To my friends, make sure you countin' them blessings
To my fans, make sure you make them investments
And to the killer that sped up my demise
I forgive you, just know your soul's in question
I seen the pain in your pupil when that trigger had squeezed
And though you did me gruesome, I was surely relieved
I completed my mission, wasn't ready to leave
But fulfilled my days, my Creator was pleased
I can't stress how I love y'all
I don't need to be in flesh just to hug y'all
The memories recollect just because y'all
Celebrate me with respect
The unity we protect is above all
And Sam, I'll be watchin' over you
Make sure my kids watch all my interviews
Make sure you live out our dreams we produced
Keep that genius in your brain on the move
And to my neighborhood, let the good prevail
Make sure them babies and the leaders outta jail
Look for salvation when troubles get real
'Cause you can't help the world until you help yourself
And I can't blame the hood the day that I was killed
Y'all had to see it, that's the only way to feel
And though my physical won't reap the benefits
The energy that carry on emits still
I want you201Embed

Title: BLOOD.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-blood-lyrics
Song Description: On BLOOD., Kendrick is shot by a blind lady hes trying to help. The blind woman can be thought of as representing consequences of the damnation referenced in the Book of Deuteronomy. The duality of obeying God and being blessed, or disobeying him and being damnedgiving into wickedness or admitting your weaknesses and submitting yourself to Godplay a major role throughout the album.

The outro is sampled from a clip of FOX News reporters criticizing Kendricks Alright performance at the 2015 BET Awards. Kendrick later responded to the criticism on TMZ Live, saying:

How can you take a song thats about hope and turn it into hatred? The overall message is were gonna be alright. Its not the message of I wanna kill people.

Kendrick talked about the song in an interview with Zane Lowe at Coachella, and he kept the mystery behind the song secret:

What I can I say about that, without saying about that. It is one of the most interesting pieces on the record. Man, I dont even think I can find the wit to tell you about that record, without telling you about that record. Theres a new life, its a new life.
Lowe: Is it the beginning of the end or the end of the beginning?
I cant tell you that. Thats what I cant tell you. Come on now, thats the whole thing.
Lowe: I had to ask though.
(laughs) I know. Thats the whole thing.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Bēkon]
Is it wickedness?
Is it weakness?
You decide
Are we gonna live or die?

[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
So I was takin' a walk the other day
And I seen a woman—a blind woman
Pacin' up and down the sidewalk
She seemed to be a bit frustrated
As if she had dropped somethin' and
Havin' a hard time findin' it
So after watchin' her struggle for a while
I decide to go over and lend a helping hand, you know?
"Hello, ma'am, can I be of any assistance?
It seems to me that you have lost something
I would like to help you find it"
She replied, "Oh, yes, you have lost something
You've lost… your life"
*Gunshot*

[Bridge: Bēkon]
Is it wickedness?

[Outro: Eric Bolling & Kimberly Guilfoyle]
Lamar stated his views on police brutality
With that line in the song, quote
"And we hate the popo, wanna kill us in the street fo' sho'"
Oh, please, ugh, I don't like itYou might also like110Embed

Title: Real
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-real-lyrics
Song Description: This song denotes an incredibly important realization that Kendrick Lamar has felt. The song as a whole stresses the importance of loving yourself (and how this is a necessary component of having some of the powerful insight that Kendrick describes throughout the album).

Notice how much lower, more controlled, and more mature Kendricks vocals sound on this song, as opposed to the higher, cracking voices he employed on the songs before (such as the immature anthem Backseat Freestyle), or the urgent tone used on m.A.A.d city. The song represents his decision to mature and his tone of voice is symbolic of that change he made.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Terrace Martin]

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
I do what I wanna do
I say what I wanna say, when I feel, and I
Look in the mirror and know I'm there
With my hands in the air, I'm proud to say yeah
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I promise that I know you very well
Your eyes never lie, even if they tell
Sweet lullabies that come with a smell
Of a dozen roses flipping down the green hill
You're living in a world that come with plan B
'Cause plan A never relay a guarantee
And plan C never could say just what it was
And your plans only can pan around love
You love him, you love them, you love her
You love so much, you love when love hurts
You love red bottom and gold that say "Queen"
You love hand-bag on the waist of your jean
You love French tip and trip that pay for
You love bank slip that tell you we paid more
You love a good hand whenever the card dealt
But what love got to do with it when you don't love yourself?
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
I do what I wanna do
I say what I wanna say, when I feel, and I
Look in the mirror and know I'm there
With my hands in the air, I'm proud to say yeah
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, ('Cause before you know it, everything's gone)

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I promise that I know you very well
Your eyes never lie, even if they fell
Out the sky and your optics turn stale
Where they mold that's green, I can see you fit the bill
Of living in a world that come with plan B
'Cause plan A only can make another mistake
And you can't see success coming from plan C
When it all breaks, you'll still say you're lovely
And love them and love when you love her
You love so much, you love when love hurts
You love fast cars and dead presidents old
You love fast women, you love keepin' control
Of everything that you love, you love beef
You love streets, you love running, ducking police
You love your hood, might even love it to death
But what love got to do with it when you don't love yourself?
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
I do what I wanna do
I say what I wanna say, when I feel, and I
Look in the mirror and know I'm there
With my hands in the air, I'm proud to say yeah
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real ('Cause before you know it, everything's gone)
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
The reason why I know you very well
'Cause we have the same eyes, can't you tell?
The days I tried to cover up and conceal
My pride, it only made it harder for me to deal
When living in a world that come with plan B
A scapegoat 'cause plan A don't come free
And plan C just an excuse like "because"
Or the word "but," but what if I got love?
I love them, I love when I love her
I love so much, I love when love hurts
I love first verse 'cause you're the girl I attract
I love second verse 'cause you're the homie that pack
Burner like a stove top, that love cooking from scratch
I love what the both of you have to offer
In fact, I love it so much, I don't love anything else
But what love got to do with it when I don't love myself
To the point I should hate everything I do love?
Should I hate living my life inside the club?
Should I hate her for watching me for that reason?
Should I hate him for telling me that I'm seizin'?
Should I hate them for telling me "ball out"?
Should I hate street credibility I'm talkin' about
Hating all money, power, respect in my will
Or hating the fact none of that shit make me real?
[Skit: Kenny Duckworth]
Kenny, I ain't trippin' off them dominoes anymore. Just calling, sorry to hear what happened to your homeboy, but don't learn the hard way like I did, homie. Any nigga can kill a man, that don't make you a real nigga. Real is responsibility. Real is taking care of your motherfucking family. Real is God, nigga

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
I do what I wanna do
I say what I wanna say, when I feel, and I
Look in the mirror and know I'm there
With my hands in the air, I'm proud to say yeah
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real, I'm really, really, real
I'm real, I'm real ('Cause before you know it, everything's gone)

[Skit: Kenny Duckworth & Paula Duckworth]
Alright, that's all I wanted to tell you. Just make sure you call us back when you get this message. Here go your mom
Boy, you better have my car on full all this time you done had my damn car, but look I ain't trippin'. Look, the neighbors say they seen you and your little friends over there by Food for Less and they was preaching to you over there telling you about the good book because right about now that's what y'all need. Oh, and Top Dawg called the house too. I guess they want you and Dave to come to the studio. But look, you take that music business serious, and put out something me and your dad can step to. Shit, you know we from Chicago, you know that's what we do
[Bridge: Anna Wise]
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you
Sing my song, it's all for you

[Skit: Paula Duckworth]
"If I don't hear from you by tomorrow, I hope you come back and learn from your mistakes. Come back a man, tell your story to these black and brown kids in Compton. Let 'em know you was just like them, but you still rose from that dark place of violence, becoming a positive person. But when you do make it, give back with your words of encouragement, and that's the best way to give back. To your city... And I love you Kendrick, if I don't hear you knocking on the door you know where I usually leave the key. Alright? Talk to you later, bye."

(*Sound of a cassette tape being stopped and fast forwarded*)

Title: Bitch, Don’t Kill My Vibe (Remix)
Release Date: March 19, 2013, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-bitch-dont-kill-my-vibe-remix-lyrics
Song Description: This is a remix of one of the most successful singles on Kendricks critically-acclaimed album, good kid, m.A.A.d city. It features a verse from none other than JAY-Z.

The cover art depicts a 19-year-old Kobe Bryant standing next to a 34-year-old Michael Jordan, as if to say that Jay was passing the torch on to his young predecessor. The game in question took place on December 17, 1997, at the Chicago Bulls United Center Arena:

https://youtu.be/sZpH9LbhQAc
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Kendrick Lamar]
I am a sinner
Who's prob'ly gonna sin again
Lord, forgive me, Lord, forgive me
Things I don't understand
Sometimes I need to be alone
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
I can feel your energy from two planets away, I got
My drink, I got my music, I would share it, but today I'm yellin'
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe (Uh)

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Look inside of my soul and you can find
Gold and maybe get rich—hol' up
Trinidad Jame$ in four weeks
But now my album platinum and shit, so what?
Y'all keep the numbers
I'm more than another statistic, my nigga
This courtesy of Compton (Courtesy of Compton)
Brooklyn go hard, motherfucker
Love me on the East like I'm Chuck D
Dominicans wish that I was born there
I'm lookin' to be the god MC
You look at my hat and see thorns there
I look at the game and see porn there
I'm fuckin' this industry hard
I'm bagging this money, tea-bagging your honey
You thought I was fresh out the yard
Don't cry to me dummy, you're a lightweight
They tell me you nice and I'm like "wait"
Go get me a knife, you're looking like steak
And when the stakes are high, I stake out for days
And when the water reside, you're Bobby Boucher
But we ain't thirsty nigga, never alert me, nigga
I got a P89 in a suitcase
I know you heard me, nigga, this is a burpee, nigga
Lyrical exercise, right now, homie, I'm in the extra vibe
Pipe down, on the curb, when you heard that I got these words
To the upper echelon, that's excellent (That's excellent)
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise, Kendrick Lamar]
I am a sinner
Who's prob'ly gonna sin again
Lord, forgive me, Lord, forgive me
Things I don't understand
Sometimes I need to be alone
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
I can feel your energy from two planets away, I got
My drink, I got my music, I would share it, but today I'm yellin'
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
Bitch, don't kill my vibe, bitch, don't kill my vibe
[Verse 2: JAY-Z]
Up in the clouds
Me and my spouse
Rumors on the ground gettin' too loud
Please turn them shits down (Down, down)
Can't hear myself think
Turbulence, shit, I almost spilled my drink
In the White House with a mink, runnin' through that bitch
Like it's my house, all up in the hall like a mall
Told you motherfuckers, all I do is ball
No, I don't 'member you, I don't intend to
Empty my memory bank
It's a million dollars in it, baby, Hilary Swank
Sittin' next to Hillary smellin' like dank
Presidential pardon, name one nigga out there harder than him
I'll wait
I've been in my wave like twenty years straight
I've been on my vibe like twenty years straight
Don't fuck up my high (Fuck up my high)
Nights like this, I could fuck up a pie
Still be straight (Still be straight)
Fall back, bitch, I got a lot on my plate
Don't waste my breath
I don't know how many moons a nigga got left
Back to this joint
Smokin' this shit like I'm tryna prove a point
I'm the highest, the highest title, numero uno
Kill my vibe, that's your motherfuckin' funeral
Hahaha
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Between you and me, turn eulogy to urinals
Niggas pissed off
I ministered this generation by far
Leader of the new school
On my toes like a ballerina, who knew I'd be Black Swan?
World in my palms, ironically
I am the Globetrotters' best 'cause I didn't drop the ball
Told niggas when I was sixteen that I'd write a sixteen
To put a nigga right on the big screen
In the paddy wagon with six teens
Shoulda been in the pen but now my pen writin' with morphine
I heal niggas, touch down with more fiends
I kill niggas, audio crack, khakis to meal ticket
Cardio lap, was running for dear life
But now I'm running the map, bitch, I'm here nigga
Picture lil' ole me giving a fuck for what a fuck nigga gotta say
Nigga, you never be Jay, never be Nas, never be Snoop nor Dre
You ain't get killed in Vegas or in a Suburban
Nigga, Puff Daddy wasn't your favorite
So many washed up with detergent
But I don't dry tears, I just aim at them on purpose
Like blah, Mini-14 like blah
Empty out another magazine like blah
Let a young nigga get by (Doot!)
I kill 'em all when they try to kill my vibe (Doot! Doot!)
I am the bad, the good god, the last the hood got
The last that would try to pass a good job
If Shawn's a black Beatle then I need a 10-second drum solo
Bitch see you at Woodstock, ah!
[Produced by Sounwave]

Title: GOD.
Release Date: April 14, 2017, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-god-lyrics
Song Description: In GOD., Kendrick flaunts his successes, how it feels, and why he works so hard. Throughout the track, Kendrick compares the sensation to what God feels like.

In the first verse, Kendrick talks himself up with all of his achievements only to be reminded that hes a mortal man in the second verse on. In a sense, hes reminding other rappers who see themselves as God that theyre not in charge.
Lyrics:

[Chorus]
This what God feel like, huh, he-yeah
Laughin' to the bank like, "A-ha!", huh, he-yeah
Flex on swole like, "A-ha!", huh, he-yeah
You feel some type of way, then a-ha!
Huh, he-yeah (A-ha-ha, a-ha-ha)

[Verse 1]
Ever since a young man (Since a young man)
All I wanna be was a gunman (Was a gunman)
Shootin’ up the charts, better run, man
Y'all gotta see that I won, man
Slick as El DeBarge with the finger waves, work it, JT
Handle bars like a fade, watch me work it, JT
I'm at large, runnin’ plays like a circuit, JT
I'm sellin' verses, JT, watch me work it, JT
Look, look… hol' up!
Don't judge me! My mama caught me with a strap
Don't judge me! I was young, fuckin' all the brats
Don't judge me! Aimin’ at your head for a stack
Don’t judge! Don't judge me! Now my home got a Valley peak
Don’t judge me! If I press your line you a freak
Don't judge me! Won't you tell a friend? Y'all gon’ see—

[Chorus]
This what God feel like, huh, he-yeah
Laughin' to the bank like, "A-ha!", huh, he-yeah
Flex on swole like, "A-ha!", huh, he-yeah
You feel some type of way, then a-ha!
Huh, he-yeah (A-ha-ha, a-ha-ha)
You might also like[Verse 2]
Fuck is you talkin' to?
Ayy, do you know who you talkin' to?
Slide on you like fallen drapes
God toss full of carnivals
I kill 'em with kindness
Or I kill 'em with diamonds
Or I put up like fifteen hundred
Get yo' ass killed by the finest
Everything in life is a gamble
Nothin' in life I can't handle
Seen it all, done it all, felt pain more
For the cause, I done put blood on sword
Everything I do is to embrace y'all
Everything I write is a damn eight ball
Everything I touch is a damn gold mine
Everything I say is from an angel

[Bridge]
I don't rush shit, fuck shit, always your shit, my shit
Cannonballs to ignite shit, morning to the night shift
I'm on, I ain't sorry for it
Asked for a piece of mind, you charged me for it
I wanna see sometimes if you ignore it
I'm in the streets sometimes and can't afford it
I got a bad habit, levitatin', duckin' haters
Oh my! My heart is rich, my heart is famous
[Chorus]
This what God feel like
Huh, he-yeah (This what God feel like)
Laughin' to the bank like, "A-ha!"
(This what God feel like)
Huh, he-yeah (This what God feel like)
Flex on swole like, "A-ha!"
(This what God feel like)
Huh, he-yeah (This what God feel like)
You feel some type of way, then a-ha!
(This what God feel like)
Huh, he-yeah (This what God feel like, a-ha-ha, a-ha-ha)
This what God feel like107Embed

Title: United in Grief
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-united-in-grief-lyrics
Song Description: Throughout his first release in exactly 1,855 days, Kendrick muses on his many achievements covering a 19-year career, as well as the pitfalls of fame. He goes into great detail about his spending habits, real estate investments, luxury vehicles, and jewelry; he also discusses entering therapy to deal with mental health issues.

Notable mentions include his cousin and fellow PgLang artist, Baby Keem, as well as longtime friend and business partner, Dave Free.
Lyrics:

[Part I]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar, Sam Dew & Whitney Alford]
I hope you find some peace of mind in this lifetime
(Tell them, tell 'em, tell them the truth)
I hope you find some paradise
(Tell 'em, tell 'em the truth)
(Tell 'em, tell 'em, tell 'em, tell 'em your—)
I've been goin' through somethin'
One-thousand eight-hundred and fifty-five days
I've been goin' through somethin'
Be afraid

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
What is a bitch in a miniskirt?
A man in his feelings with bitter nerve
What is a woman that really hurt?
A demon, you're better off killing her
What is a relative making repetitive narratives
On how you did it first?
That is a predator, hit reverse
All of your presidents' evil thirst
What is a neighborhood rep'table?
That is a snitch on a pedestal
What is a house with a better view?
A family broken in variables
What is a rapper with jewelry?
A way that I show my maturity
What if I call on security?
That mean I'm calling on God for purity
I went and got me a therapist
I can debate all my theories and sharing it (Woah)
Consolidate all my comparisons
Humblin' up because time was imperative (Woah)
Started to feel like it's only one answer
To everything, I don't know where it is (Woah)
Popping a bottle of Claritin (Woah)
Is it my head or my arrogance? (Woah)
Shaking and moving, like, what am I doing?
I'm flipping my time through the Rolodex
Indulging myself in my life and my music
The world that I'm in is a cul-de-sac
The world that we in is just menacing
The demons portrayed as religionous
I wake in the morning, another appointment
I hope the psychologist listenin'
You might also like[Part II]

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The new Mercedes whip, black G-Wagon
The "Where you from?", it was all for rap
I was 28 years young, twenty mill' in tax
Bought a couple of mansions, just for practice
Five hundred in jewelry, chain was magic
Never had it in public, late reaction
50K to cousins, post a caption
Pray none of my enemies hold me captive

[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
I grieve different
I grieve different (Huh)

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I met her on the third night of Chicago
North America tour, my enclave
Fee-fi-fo-fum, she was a model
Dedicated to the songs I wrote in the Bible
Eyes light green penetratin' the moonlight
Hair done in a bun, energy in the room like
Big Bang for theory, God, hopin' you hear me
Phone off the ringer, tell the world, "I'm busy"
Fair enough, green-eyes said her mother didn't care enough
Sympathize when her daddy in the chain gang
Her first brother got killed, he was twenty-one
I was nine when they put Lamont in the grave
Heartbroken when Estelle didn't say goodbye
Chad left his body after we FaceTimed
Green-eyes said you'd be okay, first tour, sex'd the pain away
[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
I grieve different
I grieve different (Huh)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
The new Mercedes whip, black G-Wagon
The "Where you from?", it was all for rap
I was 28 years young, twenty mill' in tax
Bought a couple of mansions, just for practice
Five hundred in jewelry, chain was magic
Never had it in public, late reaction
50K to cousins, post a caption
Pray none of my enemies hold me captive

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
So what? Paralyzed, the county building controlled us
I bought a Rolex watch, I only wore it once
I bought infinity pools I never swimmed in
I watched Keem buy four cars in four months
You know the family dynamics on repeat
The insecurities locked down on PC
I bought a .223, nobody peace treat
You won't doo-doo me, I smell TNT
Dave got him a Porsche, so I got me a Porsche
Paid lottery for it, I ain't want it in portions
Poverty was the case
But the money wipin' the tears away
[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
I grieve different
(Everybody grieves different)
(Everybody grieves different)
I grieve different (Huh)

Title: Cartoon & Cereal
Release Date: February 15, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-cartoon-and-cereal-lyrics
Song Description: Cartoon & Cereal  i.e. sugar and cheap entertainment  are pegged by Kendrick as the modern day Opiates of the Masses

Kendrick knows that if you eat sugar cereal and fast food, you are letting the system enslave your mind (so dont eat that shit). Some fans might have heard this song and remembered this line from Thanksgiving, from Lamars EP:

The good kid from the mad city
Holding a cereal box instead of a Glock

The track was produced by Axel of THC and J.LBS, mixed by Ali and features prominent use of sound-bites from classic cartoons. It features MMG lieutenant Gunplay, who shines brightest on the track.

Watch Kendrick break down his favorite cartoons and cereals with Complex below:

https://youtu.be/yheoOn-mbZc
Lyrics:

[Produced By: J.LBS & T.H.C]

[Intro]
I wanna hit line drives…
Wanna lose weight and keep eating…
For you…
Hey, whats up doc?

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar & Anna Wise]
Now I was raised in a sandbox, next to you and her
You was holding the handgun, she was giving birth
To a baby boy to be just like you, I-I wonder what's that worth
I-I wonder if you ever knew that you was a role model to me first
The next day I-I woke up in the morning, seen you on the news
Looked in the mirror, then realized that I-I-I had something to prove
You told me, "Don't be like me, just finish watching cartoons"
Which is funny now cause all I see is Wile E. Coyotes in the room

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Gunplay]
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Yeah! Blow!)
And I run it (Yeah! Blow!)
That's ironic (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
Ironic (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
That's ironic (Y-Yeah!  Blow!)
Ironic (Yeah! Blow! Yeah!)
Salt all in my wounds
Hear my tears all in my tunes
Let my life loose in this booth
Just for you, mothafucka, hope y'all amused
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Y-Yeah! Blow!)
And I run it (Yeah! Blow!)
That's ironic
You might also like[Interlude]
Liberation… Leader…
Popular pie plant pictured here…
Wile E. Coyote! Wile E. Coyote!
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
This shit make a nigga just wanna write
Reminisce when I had the morning appetite
Apple Jacks and after that I hit the TV Guide
Animaniac the only thing that gave me peace of mind
I’m a maniac when aiming at the enemy that lied
Tell a story that I'll never grow to 25
Not to worry, every warrior will come and see euphoria
And that's a covenant I put on every tribe
Ain't nobody gon' tie your shoe
Nobody gon' abide by your rule
Nobody holding your gun
How come your tongue say, "killa" then kill my mood
Light speed living in the world you know
Little old me, feeling like a live wire
Bet I put some new tires on a lightning bolt
'Til I wreck into a pole, like a right to vote
I'm from the bottom of the jungle
Living in the bottom of the food chain
When you get a new chain, nigga take it from you
A new name, want stripes, and you a zebra look-alike
Hope another homicide don't numb you a nun do
Things we will never learn soon
In the era where we wanna earn soon
That's a error, you can smell it in the air
And everybody really doomed
That's why I'm backdooring you motherfuckas
All y'all can suck my dick
All them days at the county building
I'm 'bout to make my mama rich
Cartoons and (Cereal!) I ain't felt this (Good since!)
Scrooge McDuck (Here we go!), elementary hood shit
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Now I was raised in a sandbox, next to you and her
You was holding the handgun, she was giving birth
To a baby boy to be just like you, I wonder what's that worth
I-I wonder if you ever knew that you was a role model to me first
The next day I-I woke up in the morning, seen you on the news
Looked in the mirror, then realized that I-I-I had something to prove
You told me, "Don't be like me, just finish watching cartoons"
Which is funny now cause all I see is Wile E. Coyotes in the room

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Gunplay]
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Yeah! Blow!)
And I run it (Yeah! Blow!)
That's ironic (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
Ironic (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
That's ironic (Y-Yeah!  Blow!)
Ironic (Yeah! Blow! Yeah!)
Salt all in my wounds
Hear my tears all in my tunes
Let my life loose in this booth
Just for you, mothafucka, hope y'all amused
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Blow! Blow! Blow! Blow!)
And I run it (Y-Yeah! Blow!)
And I run it (Yeah! Blow!)
That's ironic
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
This shit make a nigga just wanna shit on everybody
Even with a pot to piss in
I'ma aim sloppy at a loud mouth, discharge
Dismiss any business of yours
Discounts never did amount to a check
That ya ass couldn't cash when the shit bounce
Everything dismounts, niggas gon' flip that car
AKs for the whole hood
House lick went down perfect
Two shots to the head he deserved it
I overheard it hit my bed with a bowl and remote control
Dark Wing Duck lost service
Mama said I'd better duck, she's nervous
Drama all up in the cut, hit the curtains
I mean don't intervene with no gun machine
This block stay jerking, the feds stay lurkin'
Emerging on everbody corner (Dash for it)
Get a toe tag when you play tag
With a task of a new (Task force)
Everybody wanna know my life
How did I make it (Past yours)
Well let me tell you like this
I've been running this shit since I (Asked for)
Cartoons and cereal

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Now I was raised in a sandbox, next to you and her
You was holding the handgun, she was giving birth
To a baby boy to be just like you, I wonder what's that worth
I-I wonder if you ever knew that you was a role model to me first
The next day I-I woke up in the morning, seen you on the news
Looked in the mirror, then realized that I-I-I had something to prove
You told me, "Don't be like me, just finish watching cartoons"
Which is funny now cause all I see is Wile E. Coyotes in the room
And I run it

[Verse 3: Gunplay]
Salt all in my wounds
Hear my tears all in my tunes
Let my life loose in this booth, just for you
Muhfucka, hope y'all amused!
I did wrong, karma came
Crackers gave me ball and chain
Friends, enemies all the same
State, fed, both can hang
Nobody can't mute me
But I never said nobody can't shoot me
Just another stat to the white folks
Still whip work to the white yolk, absolutely!
Everyday feel like the one before
Hunt the money, don't hunt the ho
If you do what you always done
Then you get what you always got
You dumb buffoons!
I ain't seen the back of my eyelids
For about the past 72 hours
Hand on my heart, face to the hood
I pledge every word you ever heard was honest
Yeah, this me, no mic
No cameras, no lights, just pain
Mama, how much trauma can I sustain?
Dirty money come with lots of stains
Road to riches come with lots of lanes
Just another player with lots of game
Never had shit, got lots to gain…

[Outro: Gunplay]
Just another player with lots of game
Never had shit, got lots to gain
(To be continued)

Title: Auntie Diaries
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-auntie-diaries-lyrics
Song Description: Auntie Diaries is the sixth track on disc two from Kendrick Lamars fifth and final studio album with Top Dawg Entertainment, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers; it is the fifteenth track overall. Kendrick tells the story of two transgender people, using this narrative to critique himself, society and the churchs views on the LGBTQ community.

At the end of the song, he alludes to the controversial moment in May 2018 when he invited a white woman onstage at the Alabama Hangout Festival to perform his October 2012 track, m.A.A.d. city. When she proceeded to say the N-word, he asked her to start over and avoid using the slur, however, she was ultimately forced to return to the audience.

Kendrick juxtaposes the misuse of the N-word with his own communitys use of the F-word to denigrate queer people. He uses these parallels not only as a teaching moment for his listener, but as a clever transition to the next song, titled Mr. Morale, which begins with the following quote:

It was one of the worst performances Ive seen in my life
I couldnt sleep last night because I felt this shit
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar & Eckhart Tolle]
Heart plays in ways the mind can't figure out
Heart plays in ways the mind can't—
Heart plays in ways the mind can't figure out
This is how we conceptualize human beings

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
My auntie is a man now
I think I'm old enough to understand now
Drinking Paul Masson with her hat turned backwards
Motorola pager, off-white Guess jacket
Blue Air Max's, gold chains, and curl kits
'93 Nissan wax job, the earliest
Big social, big personality, vocal
Played the underground verbatim and stayed local
My auntie is a man now
I watch him and his girl hold their hands down
Tip of the avenues under street lights made his
Thinking, "I want me a bad bitch when I get big"
They hug on the corner like California King
Cold hand all up her skirt, cars whistling down the road
See, my auntie is a man now, slight bravado
Scratching the likes from lotto
Hoping that she pull up tomorrow
So I can hang out in the front seat
Six-by-nines keeping the music up under me
My auntie is a man now
Asked my momma why my uncles don't like him that much
And at the parties why they always wanna fight him that much
She said, "Ain't no tellin'
Niggas always been jealous because he had more women
More money and more attention made more envy
Calling him anything but broke was less offending"
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
My auntie is a man now
I think I'm old enough to understand now
Drinking Paul Masson with her hat turned backwards
Back when it was comedic relief to say, "Faggot"
"Faggot, faggot, faggot," we ain't know no better
Elementary kids with no filter, however
My auntie became a man and I took pride in it
She wasn't gay, she ate pussy, and that was the difference
That's what I told my friends in second grade
She picking me up from school, they stare at her in the face
They couldn't comprehend what I grew accustomed
We pull off bumpin' Quik like it was nothing
My auntie is a man now, what a relationship
I grew up fast, I needed no one to babysit
He gave me some cash then gave me some game
Cherry freshener on the dash, I never complained
She even cut my hair at the pad, was loving my fade
The first person I seen write a rap
That's when my life had changed
House full of demo, smoke stuck on the window
Cameras on the microphone, all women and men know
My auntie was a man now, we cool with it
The history had trickled down and made us ign'ant
My favorite cousin said he's returning the favor
And following my auntie with the same behavior
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Demetrius is Mary-Ann now
He's more confident to live his plan now (Talking to the world's gonna bring you down)
But the family in disbelief this time (Talking to the world's gonna bring you down)
Convincing themselves, "He ain't living discreet, he's fine" (Talking to the world's gonna bring you down)
They said they never seen it in him, but I seen it (Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh)
The Barbie dolls played off reflection of Venus (Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh)
He built a wall so tall you couldn't climb over
He didn't laugh as hard when the kids start joking (Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh)
"Faggot, faggot, faggot," we ain't know no better
Middle school kids with no filter, however
I had to be very mindful of my good cousin
I knew exactly who he was, but I still loved him
Demetrius is Mary-Ann now
I mean he's really Mary-Ann, even took things further
Changed his gender before Bruce Jenner was certain
Living his truth even if it meant see a surgeon
We didn't talk for a while, he seemed more distant
Wasn't comfortable around me, everything was offensive
But I recall we both had a sick sense of humor
Made raw, but time changes all

[Verse 4: Kendrick Lamar]
Demetrius is Mary-Ann now
Remember church, Easter Sunday?
I sat in the pew, you had stronger faith
More spiritual when these dudes were living life straight
Which I found ironic 'cause the pastor didn't see him the same
He said my cousin was going through some things
He promised the world we living in was an act on abomination
And Demetrius was to blame
I knew you was conflicted by the feelings of preacherman
Wondering if God still call you a decent man
Still, you found the courage to be subservient just to anoint
Until he singled you out to prove his point, saying
"Demetrius is Mary-Ann now
Church, his auntie is a man now," it hurt
You the most 'cause your belief was close to his words
Forcing me to stand now
I said, "Mr. Preacherman, should we love thy neighbor?
The laws of the land or the heart, what's greater?
I recognize the study she was taught since birth
But that don't justify the feelings that my cousin preserved"
The building was thinking out loud, bad angel
That's when you looked at me and smiled, said, "Thank you"
The day I chose humanity over religion
The family got closer, it was all forgiven
I said them F-bombs, I ain't know any better
Mistakenly, I ain't think that you'd know any different
See, I was taught words was nothing more than a sound
If ever they was pronounced without any intentions
The very second you challenged the shit I was kicking
Reminded me about a show I did out the city
That time I brung a fan on stage to rap
But disapproved the word that she couldn't say with me
You said, "Kendrick, ain't no room for contradiction
To truly understand love, switch position
'Faggot, faggot, faggot,' we can say it together
But only if you let a white girl say 'Nigga'"

Title: ​good kid
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-good-kid-lyrics
Song Description: This song kicks off good kid, m.A.A.d citys back half, depicting the immediate aftermath of K.Dot getting jumped by two guys in hoodies at the end of the previous track, Poetic Justice. This sets off the albums theme of realization, ultimately steeling Kendricks resolve to get out of the hood.

Obviously, thats easier said than done, as Kendrick delves into the negative effects of gang-culture and being racially profiled by police, who prove to be no help; K.Dots trials in the first two verses are reminiscent of Tres in the 1991 film Boyz n the Hood, who was harassed by gangsters for being a good kid and police officers for being black. Kendrick notes that while he did not affiliate with either gang, he was wrongly assumed to be involved in Compton gang culture by both sides and the police alike.

This is one half of the albums title tracks, followed by m.A.A.d city, which continues this songs narrative.

Also, good kid is notable for its absence of profanity.  It is one of the only tracks on good kid, m.A.A.d. city with this designation (with the exception of Real and Now or Never on the deluxe edition of the album).   Kendricks deliberate avoidance of profanity in this song subtly further drives home the story of a good kid who is simply guilty by association.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Mass hallucination, baby
Ill education, baby
Want to reconnect with your elations?
This is your station, baby

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Look inside these walls and you see I'm havin' withdrawals
Of a prisoner on his way
Trapped inside your desire to fire bullets that stray
Track attire just tell you I'm tired and ran away
I should ask a choir: "What do you require
To sing a song that acquire me to have faith?"
As the record spin I should pray
For the record, I recognize that I'm easily prey
I got ate alive yesterday
I got animosity buildin', it's prob'ly big as a buildin'
Me jumpin' off of the roof is me just playin' it safe
But what am I 'posed to do when the topic is red or blue
And you understand that I ain't
But know I'm accustomed to just a couple that look for trouble
And live in the street with rank
No better picture to paint than me walkin' from Bible study
And called his homies because he had said he noticed my face
From a function that tooken place, they was wonderin' if I bang
Step on my neck and get blood on your Nike checks
I don't mind 'cause one day you'll respect
The good kid, m.A.A.d city
You might also like[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Mass hallucination, baby
Ill education, baby
Want to reconnect with your elations?
This is your station, baby
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
All I see is strobe lights, blindin' me in my hindsight
Findin' me by myself, promise me you can help
In all honesty I got time to be copacetic until
You had finally made decision to hold me against my will
It was like a head-on collision that folded me standing still
I can never pick out the difference and grade a cop on the bill
Every time you clock in the morning, I feel you just want to kill
All my innocence while ignorin' my purpose to persevere
As a better person; I know you heard this and probably in fear
But what am I 'posed to do when the blinkin' of red and blue
Flash from the top of your roof and your dog has to say woof
And you ask: "Lift up your shirt," because you wonder if a tattoo
Of affiliation can make it a pleasure to put me through
Gang files, but that don't matter because the matter is racial profile
I heard 'em chatter: "He's prob'ly young, but I know that he's down
Step on his neck as hard as your bullet-proof vest
He don't mind, he know we'll never respect
The good kid, m.A.A.d. city."
[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Mass hallucination, baby
Ill education, baby
Want to reconnect with your elations?
This is your station, baby
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
All I see in this room: 20's, Xannies and these 'shrooms
Grown-up candy for pain, can we live in a sane
Society? It's entirely stressful upon my brain
You hired me as a victim, I quietly hope for change
When violence is the rhythm, inspired me to obtain
The silence in this room with 20's, Xannies and 'shrooms
Some grown-up candy, I lost it, I feel it's nothin' to lose
The streets sure to release the worst side of my best
Don't mind, 'cause now you ever in debt to good kid, m.A.A.d. city
[Chorus: Pharrell Williams]
Mass hallucination, baby
Ill education, baby
Want to reconnect with your elations?
This is your station, baby144Embed

Title: Count Me Out
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-count-me-out-lyrics
Song Description: Count Me Out is the first track on the second disc and the 10th track overall from Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers. The track focuses on Kendrick calling out a once-significant person in his life who he loves to prove wrong.

Throughout the song, Kendrick steps into a new chapter of his life, as a result of feeling obligated to open up more in his relationship.

Eventually, by the songs outro he realises that he is too good for this person and that speaking his truth and leaving the relationship brings about much happier emotions within him. As opposed to the negative and miserable feelings he experienced mindlessly bandaging the mess he got himself into.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Sam Dew, Eckhart Tolle & Whitney Alford]
We may not know which way to go on this dark road
(Mr. Duckworth)
All of these hoes make it difficult
Session 10, breakthrough

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
One of these lives, I'ma make things right
With the wrongs I've done, that's when I unite
With the Father, Son, 'til then, I fight
Rain on me, put the blame on me
Got guilt, got hurt, got shame on me
Got six magazines that's aimed at me
Done every magazine, what's fame to me?
(And I'm tripping and falling)
It's a game to me, where the bedroom at?
Sleep, I ain't nevеr had affairs with that
What's fair when the hearts and thе words don't reach?
What's fair when the money don't take things back?
It's rare when somebody take your dreams back
(And I'm tripping and falling)
I care too much, wanna share too much, in my head too much
I shut down too, I ain't there too much
I'm a complex soul, they layered me up
Then broke me down, and morality's dust, I lack in trust
(And I'm tripping and falling)
This time around, I trust myself
Please everybody else but myself
All else fails, I was myself
Outdone fear, outdone myself
This year, you better one yourself
(And I'm tripping and falling)
Masks on the babies, mask on an opp
Wear masks in the neighborhood stores you shop
But a mask won't hide who you are inside
Look around, the reality's carved in lies
Wipe my ego, dodge my pride
(And I'm tripping and falling)
Look myself in the mirror
Amityville, ain't seen nothin' scarier
I fought like a pitbull terrier
Blood I shed could fill up aquariums
Tell all my angels, "Carry 'em"
(And I'm tripping and falling)
Every emotion been deprived
Even my strong points couldn't survive
If I didn't learn to love myself, forgive myself a hundred times, dawg
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I love when you count me out (Huh)
I love when you count me out
I love when you count me out
(Wah, woo, wah, woo, wah)
I love when you count me out
Fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuckin' it up
How you gon' win my trust when the lies run deep? (Wah, woo, wah)
How you gon' bend your love when the bad don't sleep? (Sheesh)
Beep, beep, crash our feelings in the middle of the street (Vroom, vroom)

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuckin' it up (Huh, huh)

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
When you was at your lowest, tell me where the hoes was at?
When you was at your lowest, tell me where the bros was at?
3:30 in the mornin', scroll through the call log (Huh, huh, huh, huh)
Ain't nobody but the mirror lookin' for the fall off (Brrrt)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Sam Dew]
I love when you count me out
I love when you count me out
I love when you count me out
I love when you count me out
(Wah, woo, wah, woo, wah)
My name is in your mouth, shoo, shoo
It's gon' take more than pride to stop me
Call 9-1-1, I caught a body
Sun up now, and yesterday is fadin'
Healing's only 'bout a mile away
Let me tell you 'bout the woman I know (That's my baby)
I know karma like to follow us strong (Sheesh)
I know millionaires that feel alone (Sheesh)
Anytime I couldn't find God, I still could find myself through a song
Many find they life in a phone
[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuckin' it up

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
You said I'd feel better if I just worked hard without liftin' my head up
That left me fed up
You made me worry
I wanted my best version, but you ignored me
Then changed the story, then changed the story
Good energy in the room, drop the location, please
Antibiotic for the womb when I'm frustrated, please
(Antibiotic for the womb when I'm frustrated)
Tryna keep my good conscience in rotation
Thoughts in my head, they livin' there with no— (Tryna keep my good)
I made a decision, never give you my feelings
Fuck with you from, fuck with you from a distance
Some put it on the Devil when they fall short
I put it on my ego, lord of all lords
Sometimes I fall for her, dawg

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & DJ Dahi]
I love when you count me out
I love when you count me out (Sheesh)
I love when you count me out (Sheesh)
I love when you count me out (Wah, woo, wah, woo, wah)
My name is in your mouth
[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuck it up, fuckin' it up (True, true)

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
Miss Regrets, I believe that you done me wrong (Miss Regrets)
Miss Regrets, can you please exit out my home? (Miss Regrets)
Miss Regret, I think I'm better off alone (Miss Regrets)
(Miss Regret) Miss Regret, I got these deep regrets
(And I'm tripping and falling)
Some things I can't forget
Lord knows, I tried my best
You said it's not my best
I came up out my flesh
Something's up, must confess (Ah, ya)
(And I'm tripping and falling)
Spoke my truth, paid my debt (Ah, ya)
Can't you see I'm a wreck? (Ah, ya)
Let me loose, I digress (Ah, ya)
This is me, and I'm blessed (Ah, ya)
This is me, and I'm blessed (Ah, ya)
This is me, and I'm blessed (Ah, ya)
This is me, and I'm blessed (Ah, ya)
Anybody fightin' through the stress? (Ah, ya)
Anybody fightin' through the—?

Title: Mother I Sober
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-mother-i-sober-lyrics
Song Description: Mother I Sober is the eighth track on disc two of Kendrick Lamars fifth and final studio album with Top Dawg Entertainment, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers, and the seventeenth track overall. It features Beth Gibbons on the Chorus and Sam Dew on the outro, respectively.

Lamar opens up with heartfelt and personal lyrics, confronting his trauma head-on by describing his upbringing and the traumatic experiences that came with it. He details his mothers experience with sexual abuse and her fear that Lamar might experience assault as well. Later on, Lamar asserts he was never subject to drug addiction, but rather lust. Lamar then feels a sense of despair and hopelessness as he opens up about cheating on his, at the time, fianc. He sees his actions in the same vein as the actions of his mothers abuser. He then describes the ongoing remorse and guilt associated with his mistakes.

Shortly after, Lamar broadens his viewpoint on the toxic, oversexualized culture faced by the African American community and how it must be brought to attention. He exclaims, however, that the sexual abuse many black children face can be a biproduct of the culture itself, which doesnt always promote ideals of safety and security. This is later coined as the generational curse of black communities. Toward the end of the song, Kendrick metaphorically frees himself and everyone affected by this toxicity by employing transparency, pride, and positivity, thus aiming to break the so-called generational curse. This all progresses the theme Kendrick reasserts throughout the project: that he is only human.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm sensitive, I feel everything, I feel everybody
One man standin' on two words, heal everybody
Transformation, then reciprocation, karma must return
Heal myself, secrets that I hide, buried in these words
Death threats, ego must die, but I let it purge
Pacify, broken pieces of me, it was all a blur
Mother cried, put they hands on her, it was family ties
I heard it all, I should've grabbed a gun, but I was only five
I still feel it weighin' on my heart, my first tough decision
In the shadows clingin' to my soul as my only critic
Where's my faith? Told you I was Christian, but just not today
I transformed, prayin' to the trees, God is taking shape
My mother's mother followed me for years in her afterlife
Starin' at me on back of some buses, I wake up at night
Loved her dearly, traded in my tears for a Range Rover
Transformation, you ain't felt grief 'til you felt it sober

[Chorus: Beth Gibbons]
I wish I was somebody
Anybody but myself
Ooh, I wish I was somebody
Anybody but myself

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I remember lookin' in the mirror knowin' I was gifted
Only child, me for seven years, everything for Christmas
Family ties, they accused my cousin, "Did he touch you, Kendrick?"
Never lied, but no one believed me when I said "He didn't"
Frozen moments, still holdin' on it, hard to trust myself
I started rhymin', copin' mechanisms to lift up myself
Talked to my lawyer, told me not to be so hard on myself
He has an aura, I hope to achieve, if I find some help
Congratulations, made it to be famous, still I feel uneasy
Water watchin', live my life in nature, only thing relieves me
Spirit guide whisper in my ear, tell me that she sees me
"Did he touch you?" I said "No" again, still they didn't believe me
Mother's brother said he got revenge for my mother’s face
Black and blue, the image of my queen that I can't erase
'Til this day can't look her in the eyes, pain is takin' over
Blame myself, you never felt guilt 'til you felt it sober
You might also like[Chorus: Beth Gibbons]
I wish I was somebody
Anybody but myself
Ooh, I wish I was somebody
Anybody but myself
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I was never high, I was never drunk, never out my mind
I need control, they handed me some smoke, but still I declined
I did it sober sittin' with myself, I went through all emotions
No dependents, except for one, let me bring you closer
Intoxicated, there's a lustful nature that I failed to mention
Insecurities that I project, sleepin' with other women
Whitney's hurt, the purest soul I know, I found her in the kitchen
Askin' God, "Where did I lose myself? And can it be forgiven?"
Broke me down, she looked me in my eyes, "Is there an addiction?"
I said "No," but this time I lied, I knew that I can't fix it
Pure soul, even in her pain, know she cared for me
Gave me a number, said she recommended some therapy
I asked my momma why she didn't believe me when I told her "No"
I never knew she was violated in Chicago, I'm sympathetic
Told me that she feared it happened to me, for my protection
Though it never happened, she wouldn't agree
Now I'm affected, twenty years later trauma has resurfaced
Amplified as I write this song, I shiver 'cause I'm nervous
I was five, questioning myself, 'lone for many years
Nothing's wrong, just results on how them questions made me feel
I made it home, seven years of tour, chasin' manhood
But Whitney's gone, by time you hear this song, she did all she could
All those women gave me superpowers, what I thought I lacked
I pray our children don't inherit me and feelings I attract
A conversation not bein' addressed in Black families
The devastation, hauntin' generations and humanity
They raped our mothers, then they raped our sisters
Then they made us watch, then made us rape each other
Psychotic torture between our lives, we ain't recovered
Still livin' as victims in the public eyes who pledge allegiance
Every other brother has been compromised
I know the secrets, every other rapper sexually abused
I see 'em daily buryin' they pain in chains and tattoos
So listen close before you start to pass judgment on how he move
Learn how he cope, whenever his uncle had to walk him from school
His anger grows deep in misogyny
This is post-traumatic Black families and a sodomy, today is still active
So I set free myself from all the guilt that I thought I made
So I set free my mother all the hurt that she titled shame
So I set free my cousin, chaotic for my mother's pain
I hope Hykeem made you proud 'cause you ain't die in vain
So I set free the power of Whitney, may she heal us all
So I set free our children, may good karma keep them with God
So I set free the hearts filled with hatred, keep our bodies sacred
As I set free all you abusers, this is transformation
[Chorus: Beth Gibbons]
I wish I was somebody
Anybody but myself
Ooh, I wish I was somebody
Anybody but myself

[Interlude: Whitney Alford]
You did it, I'm proud of you
You broke a generational curse
Say "Thank you, dad"
Thank you, daddy, thank you, mommy, thank you, brother
Mr. Morale

[Outro: Sam Dew]
Before I go in fast asleep, love me for me
I bare my soul and now we're free56Embed

Title: Momma
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-momma-lyrics
Song Description: Momma tells of the personal growth and self-realisation that Kendrick experienced after having persevered against the internal struggles he described as Lucy in the preceding track, For Sale? ended with Kendricks poem:

The evils of Lucy was all around me
So I went runnin' for answers
Until I came home

Kendricks mention of returning home can be interpreted in many different ways at the same time:


Kendrick literally returning home to Compton (recall from the outro on GKMCs Real that Kendricks momma asked him to come back and tell his story to the kids in Compton).
Kendrick returning to Africa, aka the motherland (he actually went to South Africa in 2014, a trip that inspired much of this album).
Kendrick returning to his former, pre-fame self.



Although its never explicitly stated, there are some hints to suggest that Momma is in fact referring to Africa as Kendrick is returning back home to the Motherland. For example, take note of Kendricks conversation with the boy in Verse 3 and the final poem Kendrick recites in Mortal Man.

This song is also reminiscent of 2Pacs Dear Mama from the 1995 album Me Against the World. Funnily enough, the 2 albums were released almost exactly 20 years from each other and both Dear Mama and Momma come 9th in their respective track lists.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Knxwledge & Taz Arnold]
[Part I]

[Intro: Taz Arnold & Lalah Hathaway]
—that dream
Oh, shit!
I need that (So it seems)
I need that sloppy
That sloppy (Yo, yo, yo, —that dream)
Like a Chevy in quicksand
Yeah
That sloppy (So it seems)

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
This feelin' is unmatched
This feelin' is brought to you by adrenaline and good rap
Black Pendleton ball cap (West, west, west)
We don't share the same synonym, fall back (West, west, west)
Been in it before internet had new acts
Mimicking radio's nemesis made me wack (Ooh-ooh)
My innocence limited, the experience lacked
Ten of us with no tentative tactic that cracked
The mind of a literate writer, but I did it, in fact (Yeah)
You admitted it once I submitted it, wrapped in plastic
Remember scribblin', scratchin' diligent sentences backwards
Visiting freestyle cyphers for your reaction
Now, I can live in a stadium, pack it the fastest
Gamblin' Benjamin benefits, sinnin' in traffic
Spinnin' women in cartwheels, linen fabric on fashion
Winnin' in every decision, Kendrick is master that mastered it
Isn't it lovely how menaces turned attraction?
Pivotin' rappers, finish your fraction while writing blue magic
Thank God for rap
I would say it got me a plaque, but what's better than that?
The fact it brought me back home
You might also like[Chorus: Lalah Hathway & Taz Arnold]
We been waitin' for you
Waitin' for you
Waitin' for you
Waitin' for you
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I know everything
I know everything, know myself
I know morality, spirituality, good and bad health
I know fatality might haunt you
I know everything
I know Compton, I know street shit,I know shit that's conscious
I know everything, I know lawyers, advertisement and sponsors
I know wisdom, I know bad religion, I know good karma
I know everything, I know history
I know the universe works mentally
I know the perks of bullshit isn't meant for me
I know everything, I know cars, clothes, hoes, and money
I know loyalty, I know respect, I know those that's ornery
I know everything, the highs, the lows, the groupies, the junkies
I know if I'm generous at heart, I don't need recognition
The way I'm rewarded—well, that's God's decision
I know you know that line's for Compton School District
Just give it to the kids, don’t gossip 'bout how it was distributed
I know how people work
I know the price of life, I'm knowin' how much it’s worth
I know what I know, and I know it well not to ever forget
Until I realized I didn’t know shit, the day I came home
[Chorus: Lalah Hathway & Taz Arnold]
We been waitin' for you
Waitin' for you
Waitin' for you
Waitin' for you
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I met a little boy that resembled my features
Nappy afro, gap in his smile, hand-me-down sneakers
Bounced through the crowd
Run a number on man and woman that crossed him
Sun beamin' on his beady beads, exhausted
Tossin' footballs with his ashy, black ankles
Breakin' new laws, mama passed on home trainin'
He looked at me and said, "Kendrick, you do know my language
You just forgot because of what public schools had painted"
Oh, I forgot, "Don't Kill My Vibe," that's right, you're famous
I used to watch on Channel 5, TV was taken
But never mind, you're here right now, don't you mistake it
It's just a new trip, take a glimpse of your family ancestor
Make a new list of everything you thought was progress
And that was bullshit, I know your life is full of turmoil
Spoiled by fantasies of who you are, I feel bad for you
I can attempt to enlighten you without frightenin' you
If you resist, I'll back off quick, go catch a flight or two
But if you pick destiny over rest-in-peace
Then be an advocate, tell your homies, especially
To come back home"
[Part II]

[Interlude]
This is a world premiere (This is a world premiere)
This is a world premiere (This is a world premiere)
This is a world premiere

[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar]
I been lookin' for you my whole life, an appetite
For the feeling I can barely describe, where you reside?
Is it in a woman, is it in money or mankind?
I been lookin' for you my whole life, an appetite
For the feeling I can barely describe, where you reside?
Is it in a woman, is it in money, or mankind?
Tell me something, think I'm losing my mind, ah!
[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
I say, where you at? From the front to the back
I'm lookin' for you, I react only when you react
Ah, I thought I found you, back in the ghetto
When I was seventeen with the .38 special
Maybe you're in a dollar bill, maybe you're not real
Maybe only the wealthy get to know how you feel
Maybe I'm paranoid, ha, maybe I don't need you anyway
Don't lie to me, I'm suicidal anyway
I can be your advocate
I can preach for you if you tell me what the matter is162Embed

Title: wacced out murals
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-wacced-out-murals-lyrics
Song Description: This is the introduction to Kendrick Lamars surprise album drop, this is especially impactful because its his first official album release since dissing fellow rapper Drake. This song, wacced out murals is a bold, unfiltered statement about Kendricks unwavering commitment to his art, his struggles with external pressures, and his vison for his legacy. It speaks to his resilience in the face of adversity, and his role as a voice for truth and change.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Deyra Barrera]
Siento aquí tu presencia
La noche de anoche
Y nos ponemos a llorar

[Verse 1]
Yesterday, somebody whacked out my mural
That energy'll make you niggas move to Europe
But it's regular for me, yeah, that's for sure
The love and hate is definite without a cure
All this talk is bitch-made, that's on my Lord
I'll kill 'em all before I let 'em kill my joy
I done been through it all, what you endure?
It used to be fuck that nigga, but now it's plural
Fuck everybody, that's on my body
My blick first, then God got me
I watch 'em pandеr with them back-handed compliments
Put thеy head on a Cuban link as a monument
I paid homage and I always mind my business
I made the—
I never lost who I am for a rap image
It's motivation if you wonder how I did it

[Chorus]
Yeah, nigga, go and up your rank
Know you a god even when they say you ain't
Yeah, nigga, keep your feelings out the way
Never let no one put smut up on your name
Yeah, nigga, keep your head down and work like I do
But understand everybody ain't gon' like you
Yeah, nigga, if they say it's love, you've been lied to
A couple rules of engagements, I'ma guide you
You might also like[Post-Chorus: Deyra Barrera]
Que refleja en tu mirada
La noche, tú y yo

[Verse 2]
Ridin' in my GNX with Anita Baker in the tape deck, it's gon' be a sweet love
Fuck apologies, I wanna see y'all geeked up
Don't acknowledge me, then maybe we can say it's fair
Take it to the internet and I'ma take it there
Miss my uncle Lil' Mane, he said that he would kill me if I didn't make it
Now I'm possessed by a spirit and they can't take it
Used to bump Tha Carter III, I held my Rollie chain proud
Irony, I think my hard work let Lil Wayne down
Whatever, though, call me crazy, everybody questionable
Turn me to an eskimo, I drew the line and decimals
Snoop posted "Taylor Made," I prayed it was the edibles
I couldn't believe it, it was only right for me to let it go
Won the Super Bowl and Nas the only one congratulate me
All these niggas agitated, I'm just glad they showin' they faces
Quite frankly, plenty artists, but they outdated
Old-ass flows, tryna convince me that you they favorite
This is not for lyricists, I swear it's not the sentiments
Fuck a double entendre, I want y'all to feel this shit
Old soul, bitch, I probably built them pyramids
Ducking strays when I rap battled in the Nickersons
Where you from? Not where I'm from, we all indigenous
Against all odds, I squabbled up for them dividends
Against all odds, I showed up as a gentleman
I done lost plenty friends, sixteen to be specific
Put that on my kids' children, we gon' see the future first
They like, "Dot big trippin," I just want what I deserve
What bridge they done burnt? All of them, it's over with
I'm doin' what COVID did, they'll never get over it
[Chorus]
Yeah, nigga, go and up your rank
Know you a god even when they say you ain't
Yeah, nigga, keep your feelings out the way
Never let no one put smut up on your name
Yeah, nigga, keep your head down and work like I do
But understand everybody ain't gon' like you
Yeah, nigga, if they say it's love, you've been lied to
A couple rules of engagements, here to guide you

[Verse 3]
Niggas from my city couldn't entertain old boy
Promisin' bank transactions and even bitcoin
I never peaced it up, that shit don't sit well with me
Before I take a truce, I'll take 'em to Hell with me
If that money got in the hands of a crash dummy
Could jeopardize my family and burden the ones who love me
Niggas mad 'cause I decided not to pretend
Y'all stay politically correct, I'ma do what I did
Ain't no sympathy here, this shit's hilarious
It's a lot of opinions, but no power to carry it
2025, they still movin' on some scary shit
Tell 'em quit they job and pay the real niggas they severance
Don't insult my intelligence, I'm not just for the television
Teleport to Bullets Road and dig up all my relatives
Okay, nigga, let's settle it, these niggas been fake loyal
Since y'all pandering to choose a side, let me do it for you
Okay, fuck your hip-hop, I watched the party just die
Niggas cackling about— while all of y'all is on trial
Niggas thought that I was antisocial when I stayed inside of my house
You better off to have one woman, everything tricky right now
You niggas live in denial
Ayy, fuck anybody empathetic to the other side, I vow
A bitch nigga love bitch niggas, they exist with 'em in style
Exterminate 'em right now
Make Katt Williams and them proud, the truth 'bout to get loud
No juice inside of my cup, I sober up and knock 'em all off
Don't let no white comedian talk about no Black woman, that's law
I know propaganda work for them, and fuck whoever that's close to them
The niggas that coon, the niggas that bein' groomed, slide on both of them
You ever ate Cap'n Crunch and proceeded to pour water in it?
Pulled over by the law, you ridin' dirty, so you can't argue with 'em?
Then make it to be a star, bare your soul and put your heart up in it?
Well, I did
Whacked the murals out, but it ain't no legends if my legend ends22Embed

Title: Father Time
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-father-time-lyrics
Song Description: On Father Time, Kendrick concerns himself with his daddy issues, while the title refers to time personified, usually as an older man with a scythe or an hourglass.

Kendrick explores the long-ingrained, toxic masculinity that is passed on from generation to generation, sometimes actively by a father who is present, and other times through the absence of a father figure. A momentous theme on this project, Lamar goes in depth about his struggles with mental health, opening the song with a short sketch where his partner, Whitney Alford, tells him to seek counseling from Eckhart Tolle. He goes on to cite daddy issues as a reason for gang culture among young Black men in the broader community.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Whitney Alford & Kendrick Lamar]
You really need some therapy
Real nigga need no therapy, fuck you talkin' about?
Nah, nah, you sound stupid as fuck
Shit, everybody stupid
Yeah, well, you need to talk to somebody
Reach out to Eckhart

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I come from a generation of home invasions and I got daddy issues, that's on me
Everything them four walls had taught me, made habits bury deep
That man knew a lot, but not enough to keep me past them streets
My life is a plot, twisted from directions that I can't see
Daddy issues ball across my head, told me, "Fuck a foul"
I'm teary-eyed, wanna throw my hands, I won't think out loud
A foolish pride, if I lose again, won't go in the house
I stayed outside, laughin' with my friends, they don't know my lifе
Daddy issues made me lеarn losses, I don't take those well
Momma said, "That boy is exhausted," he said, "Go fuck yourself
If he give up now, that's gon' cost him, life's a bitch
You could be a bitch or step out the margin," I got up quick
I'm chargin' baskets and falling backwards, tryna keep balance
Oh, this the part where mental stability meets talent
Oh, this the part, he breaks my humility just for practice
Tactics we learned together, sore losers forever, daddy issues
You might also like[Chorus: Sampha]
Early mornin' wake-ups (Ah), practicin' on day-offs (Ah)
Tough love (Ah), bottled up, no chaser (Ah)
Neat, no chaser (Ah), neat, no chaser (Ah)
Neat, no chaser (Ah), neat, no chase- (Ah)
Early mornin' wake-ups (Wake-ups), practicin' on day-offs (Ah, day-offs)
Tough love (Ah), bottled up, no chaser (Ah)
Neat, no chaser (Ah), neat, no chaser (Ah)
Neat, no chaser (Ah), neat, no chaser

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar & Sampha]
I got daddy issues, that's on me
Lookin' for, "I love you", rarely empathizin' for my relief
A child that grew accustomed, jumping up when I scraped my knee
'Cause if I cried about it, he'd surely tell me not to be weak
Daddy issues, hid my emotions, never expressed myself
Men should never show feelings, being sensitive never helped
His momma died, I asked him why he goin' back to work so soon?
His first reply was, "Son, that's life, and bills got no silver spoon"
Daddy issues, fuck everybody, go get your money, son
Protect yourself, trust nobody, only your momma'n'em
This made relationships seem cloudy, never attached to none
So if you took some likings around me, I might reject the love
Daddy issues kept me competitive, that's a fact, nigga
I don't give a fuck what's the narrative, I am that nigga
When Kanye got back with Drake, I was slightly confused
Guess I'm not mature as I think, got some healin' to do
Egotistic, zero-given fucks and to be specific (Ah)
Need assistance with the way I was brought up (Ah, ah)
What's the difference when your heart is made of stone
And your mind is made of gold
And your tongue is made of sword, but it may weaken your soul?
My niggas ain't got no daddy, grow up overcompensatin'
Learn shit 'bout bein' a man and disguise it as bein' gangsta
I love my father for tellin' me to take off the gloves
'Cause everything he didn't want was everything I was
And to my partners that figured it out without a father
I salute you, may your blessings be neutral to your toddlers
It's crucial, they can't stop us if we see the mistakes
'Til then, let's give the women a break, grown men with daddy issues
[Chorus: Sampha]
Early mornin' wake-ups (Ah), practicin' on day-offs (Ah)
Tough love (Ah), bottled up, no chaser (Ah)
Neat, no chaser (Ah), neat, no chaser (Ah)
Neat, no chaser (Ah), neat, no chaser56Embed

Title: For Sale? (Interlude)
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-for-sale-interlude-lyrics
Song Description: This song offers a deeper insight into the previously introduced figure of Lucy (a character representing Lucifer).

As the song goes on, it is understood that Lucy is short for Lucifer, hence the lines about temptation and signing contracts. The name makes the song work in tandem with For Free?. Both songs relate to his value as a musician, and how that transcends in to his value as a person. On For Free? he criticizes the culture that breeds a belief that musicians and famous people must floss or be showy with their money. Here, he juxtaposes that criticism with the seductive nature of the hip-hop lifestyle, namely the bling culture, and the idea that once an artist signs a deal and receives their advance, all their dreams will come true.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Taz Arnold; Additional production by Sounwave & Terrace Martin]
[Intro: Bilal]
Oh, oh, oh, oh, ohhhh, ohh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, ohhhh, ohh
(Breathing)
What's wrong, nigga?
I thought you was keeping it gangsta
I thought this what you wanted
They say if you scared, go to church
But remember, he knows the Bible too
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Now, baby, when I get you, get you, get you, get you
I'ma go hit the throttle with you
Smoking, lokin', poking that doja 'til I'm idle with you
'Cause I (Want you)
Now, baby, when I'm riding here, I'm riding dirty
Registration is out of service
Smoking, lokin', drinking that potion, you can see me swerving
'Cause I (Want you)
(I want you more than you know)
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I remember you took me to the mall last week, baby
You looked me in my eyes about four, five times
'Til I was hypnotized, then you clarified
That I (Want you)
You said Sherane ain't got nothing on Lucy
I said, "You crazy?"
Roses are red, violets are blue
But me and you both pushing up daisies if I (Want you)
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Now, baby, when I get you, get you, get you, get you
I'ma go hit the throttle with you
Smoking, lokin', poking that doja 'til I'm idle with you
'Cause I (Want you)
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
You said to me, you said your name was Lucy
I said, "Where's Ricardo?"
You said, "Oh, no, not the show"
Then you spit a little rap to me like this
When I turned twenty-six, I was like, "Oh, shit"
You said to me, I remember what you said too, you said:
"My name is Lucy, Kendrick, you introduced me, Kendrick
Usually I don’t do this but I see you and me, Kendrick
Lucy give you no worries, Lucy got million stories
About these rappers that I came after when they was boring
Lucy gon' fill your pockets
Lucy gon' move your mama out of Compton
Inside the gi-gantic mansion like I promised
Lucy just want your trust and loyalty, avoiding me?
It's not so easy, I'm at these functions accordingly
Kendrick, Lucy don't slack a minute, Lucy work harder
Lucy gon' call you even when Lucy know you love your Father
I'm Lucy, I loosely heard prayers on your first album, truly
Lucy don't mind, 'cause at the end of the day you'll pursue me
Lucy go get it, Lucy not timid, Lucy up front
Lucy got paperwork on top of paperwork
I want you to know that Lucy got you
All your life I watched you
And now you all grown up to sign this contract, if that’s possible"
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Get you, get you, get you, get you
I'ma go hit the throttle with you
Smoking, lokin', poking that doja 'til I'm idle with you
'Cause I (Want you)
Now, baby, when I'm riding here, I'm riding dirty
Registration is out of service
Smoking, lokin', drinking that potion, you can see me swerving
'Cause I (Want you)

[Refrain: Bilal]
Oh, oh, oh, oh, ohhhh, ohh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, ohhhh, ohh
[Poem]
I remember you was conflicted
Misusing your influence, sometimes I did the same
Abusing my power full of resentment
Resentment that turned into a deep depression
Found myself screamin' in the hotel room
I didn't wanna self destruct
The evils of Lucy was all around me
So I went runnin' for answers
Until I came home109Embed

Title: untitled 07 | 2014-2016
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-07-2014-2016-lyrics
Song Description: untitled 07 | 2014-2016 is a three-part track that captures the arc of an emotional rush: the initial elation, the inflated confidence, and coming down. It also works well with Kendricks most prominent lyrical themes: HiiiPower, self-love, his growing influence as a rapper/philanthropist, and sexual gratification.

Unlike every other track on the album, the song does not have a specific date attached to it, likely meaning it was made in piecemeal rather than in one jam session.

Swizz Beatz posted on Instagram that part of this track was produced by his and Alicia Keys 5-year-old son, Egypt Dean. Pictured below is Egypt with Kendrick, Jay Z, Usher and other legends.



Kendrick later released a shortened version of this track as a single titled untitled 07 | levitate, which only features Part I.
Lyrics:

[Part I: "untitled 07 | levitate"]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Pimp-pimp! (Hooray!)
Pimp-pimp! (Hooray!)
(Hooray!)
Pimp-pimp! (Hooray!)
(Hooray!)

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Love won't get you high as this
Drugs won't get you high as this
Fame won't get you high as this
Chains won't get you high as this
Juice won't get you high as this
Crew won't get you high as this
Hate won't get you high as this
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate, uh
Love won't get you high as this
Drugs won't get you high as this
Fame won't get you high as this
Chains won't get you high as this
Juice won't get you high as this
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Life won't get you high like this here, no
He won't get you high like this here, no
She won't get you high like this here, no
"For Free?" won't get you high like this here, no
Two keys won't get you high, no, no, no
Bentleys won't get you high, like, no
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate
Life won't get you high, no, no, no
He won't get you high, no, no, no
She won't get you high, no, no, no
"For Free?" won't get you high, no, no, no
Two keys won't get you high, no, no, no
Bentleys won't get you high, no, no, no
Bars won't get you high, no, no, no
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate
You might also like[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Shut your fuckin' mouth and get some cash, you bitch, you
You be in your feelings, I be in my bag, you bitch, you
Santa reindeer better have some ass, you bitch, you
Everything I'm working, gotta be the gas, you bitch, you
(Don't fuck around, don't fuck around, don't fuck around, don't fuck a…)
Shut your fuckin' mouth and get some cash, you bitch
You be in your feelings, I be in my bag, you bitch
Santa reindeer better have some ass, you bitch
Everything I'm working, gotta be the
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate

[Verse 4: Kendrick Lamar]
Me don't want problem (Me don't want problem)
Me don't want trick (Me don't want trick)
Me do want dollars (Me do want dollars)
Me want it big (Me do want dollars)
Me don't want problem (We ride Impalas)
Me don't want trick (Me don't want trick)
Me do want dollars (Me don't want trick)
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate
We don't want problem (We don't want problem)
We don't want trick (We don't want trick)
We do want dollar (We do want dollar)
We do it big (We don't want problem)
We do it big (We don't want problem)
We do it big (We don't want trick)
We don't want problem (We don't want problem)
Levitate, levitate, levitate, levitate
[Part II]

[Interlude: Egypt]
Compton is where I'm from
Is where I'm from, where is I'm from

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Yeah, yeah
Young Egypt
Look, look
[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
I feel like Pacino in Godfather, I'm charged
Our Father who art in Heaven, Kendrick at large
Came in the game with a plan of beatin' the odds
What an accomplishment, broken promises
Kept my focus anonymous till I dealt with the consequence
The greatest, the latest mogul, you know what time it is
You niggas fear me like y'all fear God
You sound frantic, I hear panic in your voice
Just know the mechanics of making your choice in writin' your bars
Before you poke out your chest, loosen your bra
Before you step out of line and dance with the star
I could never end a career if it never start
The murderous capital, avenues lookin' like evil dead zombies
With batteries to the head
The flattery of watchin' my stock rise
The salary, the compensation tripled my cock size
I run through these stop signs with no brake fluid
Just premium gas, do it for dolo
Crash markets and prejudiced tags, look at my photo
Black excellence, pessimist, die countin' my coin
Hope it's evident that I inspired a thousand emcees to do better
I blew cheddar on youth centers, buildings and beamers and blue leather
Forecastin' my future, this is the future
The mastermind, until my next album, more power to you
*Gunshot*
[Part III]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar & Taz Arnold]
Come on, come on, come on, come on
Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
Come on, come on, come on, come on (Hell yeah), come on
Come on, come on, come on, come on
Come on, come on

[Interlude: Kendrick Lamar & Taz Arnold]
This is a fifteen minute song (Ahahaha)
We're just jammin' out, we on stage
Taz, we just jammin' out (Shhh)
Hundred thousand (Aw, yeah, aw, shit, hahahaha)
Hundred thousand, you gotta see it!
Look, look, look, go back to the down note
They all sing this shit, everybody

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar & Taz Arnold]
Now I don't let you down, down for
You see, you see, you see, you see (Right)
But I don't shake you down, dog for you, you, you, you, uh
They say the government ain't the truth, truth, (Mhm) truth, truth
And the politicians always mislead the youth, youth, youth, youth
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar & Taz Arnold]
But head is the answer
Head is the future
Don't second guess yourself
Come on, give me some help
Hey one more time, band, I need y'all to help me out right now (Hahahaha)
Head is the answer (Yeah)
Head is the futu—it's the future, that nigga said
Don't second guess yourself (Crazy, holy shit, hahaha)
Come on, give me some help
Say come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
Come on, come on—my background singer—come on, come on (Right, yeah, yeah, yeah)
Say, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
Come on, come on, come on, come on

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar & Taz Arnold]
I said, girl, you make me wanna, uh
Great, the—the ho's screaming now, uh (Hahahaha)
I said baby you make
You make me wanna just, ah!
Baby, (Hahahaha) you got me speechless right now
(Hahaha, you gotta take it there)
I gotta take it there, I ain't even playin' no more
Uh, said you just make me wanna drag you down
To the ground, to the ground
Like bam, bam, bam, bam, bam
Ju—you just make me wanna drag you down
To—down, around like bam, bam, bam, bam, bam
And, baby, if your mama's around if your mama's around
If your mama's around if your mama's around
Tell her, tell her
No discrimination (Haha), she young nigga chasin' (Ahahah!)
And she can get this dick too!

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
I said come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
Yeah, nigga
You gotta do it, man
We gonna lay that shit
We gonna lay that shit man and watch what it's gon' do81Embed

Title: Complexion (A Zulu Love)
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-complexion-a-zulu-love-lyrics
Song Description: This song is about educating society on beauty standards, especially colorism. Colorism affects the black community profusely due to its roots, which spawn from the history of slavery in America. In the song, Kendrick details the importance of loving all people no matter how light or dark.



In an interview, Kendrick described the song saying:

The idea was to make a record that reflected all complexions of black women. Theres a separation between the light and the dark skin because its just in our nature to do so, but were all black. This concept came from South Africa and I saw all these different colors speaking a beautiful language.

In the same interview, Rapsody said the original idea wasnt for Kendrick to even have a verse, Kendrick wanted Prince to do the hook and have Rhapsody spit two verses.

Also note: A Tribe Called Quest, one of the pioneers of jazz rap, referenced the Universal Zulu Nation many times throughout their discography. The Universal Zulu Nation is described as an organization of individuals in search of success, peace, knowledge, wisdom, understanding and the righteous way of life.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Thundercat & Sounwave; Additional production by Terrace Martin & Antydote]

[Intro: Pete Rock]
I'm with this
[Chorus: Pete Rock]
Complexion (Two-step)
Complexion don't mean a thing (It's a Zulu love)
Ooh, complexion (Two-step)
It all feels the same (It's a Zulu love)

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh, dark as the midnight hour or bright as the mornin' sun
Give a fuck about your complexion, I know what the Germans done
Sneak (Dissin')
Sneak me through the back window, I’m a good field nigga
I made a flower for you outta cotton just to chill with you
You know I'd go the distance, you know I'm ten toes down
Even if master listenin', cover your ears, he 'bout to mention
[Chorus: Pete Rock]
Complexion (Two-step)
Complexion don't mean a thing (It's a Zulu love)
Ooh, complexion (Two-step)
It all feels the same (It's a Zulu love)
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh, dark as the midnight hour, or bright as the mornin' sun
Brown skinned, but your blue eyes tell me your mama can't run
Sneak (Dissin')
Sneak me through the back window, I’m a good field nigga
I made a flower for you outta cotton just to chill with you
You know I'd go the distance, you know I'm ten toes down
Even if master's listenin', I got the world's attention
So I'ma say somethin' that's vital and critical for survival
Of mankind, a feline color should never rival
Beauty is what you make it, I used to be so mistaken
By different shades of faces
Then Whit' told me, "A woman is woman, love the creation"
It all came from God, then you was my confirmation
I came to where you reside
And looked around to see more sights for sore eyes
Let the Willie Lynch theory reverse a million times with...
[Chorus: Pete Rock]
Complexion (Two-step)
Complexion don't mean a thing (It's a Zulu love)
Ooh, complexion (Two-step)
It all feels the same (It's a Zulu love)
[Interlude: JaVonté & Kendrick Lamar]
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
You like it, I love it
(Where the homegirl Rapsody at?
I need you to speak your mind real quick, loved one!)
[Verse 3: Rapsody]
Let me talk my Stu Scott, 'scuse me on my 2Pac
Keep your head up when the juice stop, loving thy
Color of your skin? Color of your eyes
That's the real blues, baby, like you met Jay's baby, uh
You blew me away, you think more beauty in blue, green and grey
All my solemn men up north, twelve years a slave
Twelve years of age, thinkin' my shade too dark
I love myself, I no longer need Cupid
Enforcin' my dark side like a young George Lucas
Light don't mean you smart, bein' dark don't make you stupid
And frame of mind for them bustas, ain't talkin' "Woo-hah!"
Need a paradox for the pair of doc's they tutored
Like two Todd's, L-L, you lose two times
If you don't see you beautiful in your complexion
It ain't complex to put it in context
Find the air beneath the kite, that's the context
Yeah, baby, I'm conscious, ain't no contest
If you like it, I love it, all your earth tones been blessed
Ain't no stress, jiggaboos wanna be
I ain't talkin' Jay, I ain't talkin' Bey
I'm talkin' days we got school watchin' movie screens
And spike your self-esteem
The new James Bond gon' be black as me
Black as brown, hazelnut, cinnamon, black tea
And it's all beautiful to me
Call your brothers magnificent, call all the sisters queens
We all on the same team, blues and pirus, know colors ain't a thing
[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
Barefoot babies with no care
Teenage gun toters that don't play fair, should I get out the car?
I don't see Compton, I see something much worse
The land of the landmines, the hell that's on earth113Embed

Title: Rich Spirit
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-rich-spirit-lyrics
Song Description: Rich Spirit depicts an irreverent Kendrick talking about his own qualities while trying to stand firm against the criticism against him.

Kendrick utilizes ethereal melodies and portrays a different side to Lamars customary approach while also debatingmortality, loyalty, narcissism, and other themes.

The instrumental features backing vocals from Sam Dew, who is additionally listed as a feature on Disc 2s Savior, which also features Kendricks' cousin Baby Keem.

On November 16th, 2022, Kendrick released a calmatic-directed music video for the song on YouTube.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Takin' my baby to school, then I pray for her
'Cause you bitches ain't never been cool, writin' testament
Paintin' pictures, put me in the Louvre, that's a definite
Universal shift, I'm in a groove
And celebrity do not mean integrity, you fool
I'm a good man, shake your hand, firm grip rule
Seventy-two wins, lost ten, ballin' with the flu
More than two M's for a show, but add another two
Hmm, lil' Man-Man, the big mans
The GT Dyno flippin' the kickstand, ooh

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Sam Dew]
Rich nigga, broke phone (Ah)
Tryna keep the balance, I'm stayin' strong (Ooh)
Stop playin' with me 'fore I turn you to a song (Yeah)
Stop playin' with me 'fore I turn you to a song (Ooh)
Ayy, bitch, I'm attractive (Ah)
Can't fuck with you no more, I'm fastin', ugh (Ooh)
Bitch, I'm attractive (Ah, ah, ah, ah)
Can't fuck with you no more, I'm fastin', ugh

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
The morality can wait, feedback on low latency, I'm glitching from the face
As my thoughts grow sacredly, I'm runnin' out of space
Ask Whitney, she okay, never mind a hundred K
Why you lyin' on Benjamin? He turnin' in his grave
I'd be lyin' if I said I wouldn't give this shit away
The aloof Buddha, I'm Christ with a shooter
Praise to Muhammad, I might nigga noose ya
AP, Michael Friedman, my friends cooler
Primary, so the resale value stupid
I would never live my life on a computer
IG'll get you life for a chikabooya
More power to ya, love 'em from a distance
Why you always in the mirror more than the bitches?
And my cousin tried to sue me like he got the privilege
But I didn't lose sleep 'cause I got the spirit, ayy (Ooh)
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Sam Dew]
Rich nigga, broke phone (Ah)
Tryna keep the balance, I'm stayin' strong (Ooh)
Stop playin' with me 'fore I turn you to a song (Yeah)
Stop playin' with me 'fore I turn you to a song (Ooh)
Ayy, bitch, I'm attractive (Ah)
Can't fuck with you no more, I'm fastin', ugh (Ooh)
Bitch, I'm attractive (Ah, ah, ah, ah)
Can't fuck with you no more, I'm fastin', ugh
[Interlude: Sam Dew]
Dun-duh, dun-duh, dun-duh, duh, dum
Dun-duh-duh, duh, duh
Dun-duh, dun-duh, dun-duh, dun-duh, dun

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Frat brother, real nigga, that brother
We just upped the score, give me dap, brother
Spirit medium, I don't rap, brother
We headed there now, are you strapped, brother?
Ayy, peacemaker, but I'm not naive, brother
Ayy, gotta watch your homies and police, brother
Ayy, clout chasing hell of a disease, brother
I'm fasting four days out the week, brother
I pray to God that you realize the entourage is dead
I pray to God that you not lackin' when you off the meds
I pray to God she know them Cabo trips don't last forever
Bet she argue with her momma, go and get them kids
I pray to God you actually pray when somebody dies
Thoughts and prayers, way better off timelines
False claimin' not cute, I'm mortified
The New Earth in hot pursuit, two-hundred lives
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Sam Dew]
Rich nigga, broke phone (Ah)
Tryna keep the balance, I'm stayin' strong (Ooh)
Stop playin' with me 'fore I turn you to a song (Yeah)
Stop playin' with me 'fore I turn you to a song (Ooh)
Ayy, bitch, I'm attractive (Ah)
Can't fuck with you no more, I'm fastin', ugh (Ooh)
Bitch, I'm attractive (Ah, ah, ah, ah)
Can't fuck with you no more, I'm fastin', ugh

[Outro: Sam Dew]
Dun-duh, dun-duh, dun-duh, duh, dum
Dun-duh-duh, duh, duh
Dun-duh, dun-duh, dun-duh, dun-duh, dun35Embed

Title: Worldwide Steppers
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-worldwide-steppers-lyrics
Song Description: Worldwide Steppers is the third track on Kendrick Lamars fifth and final studio album with Top Dawg Entertainment, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers.

The track features a brief introduction by Kodak Black. The ensuing chorus and verse provide some insight into his relatively seclusive life, one where he has spent nearly 5 years detached from the public. During this time, he has fathered two children, who seem to have grounded him. Other aspects of this track include religion, which Lamar claims lifted him out of writers block to create this album.

He also references various sexual encounters he has had with white women, believing his ancestors would shame him for these decisions; They likely condemn these interracial relationships for disregarding the mass incarceration that White America has imposed over black communities. He even reveals that his partner, Whitney Alford, questioned these choices.

Later in Part 2, he regretfully recalls the harm he has indirectly inflicted on his own communities, referencing a food drive TDE held which may have contributed to heart issues among those that attended. In the end, this song functions as a piece of self-criticism that also reflects the shortcomings of society as a whole.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kodak Black]
Kodak Black, Oklama
Eckhart Tolle
And this here is the big stepper

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm a killer, he's a killer, she's a killer, bitch
We some killers, walkin' zombies, tryna scratch that itch
Germophobic, hetero and—

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I am not for the faint of heart
My genetic build can build multi-universes, the man of God
Playin' "Baby Shark" with my daughter
Watchin' for sharks outside at the same time
Life as a protective father, I'd kill for her
My son Enoch is the part two
When I expire, my children'll make higher valleys
In this present moment, I saw that through
Ask Whitney about my lust addiction
Text messagin' bitches got my thumbs hurt
Set precedent for a new sacrilegion
Writer's block for two years, nothin' moved me
Asked God to speak through me, that's what you hearin' now
The voice of yours truly
Teleport out my own body for comfort
I don't pass judgment, past life regressions keep me in question
Where did I come from? I don't think like I used to
No, I don't blink like I used to
Awkward stares at everybody, see the flesh of man
But still, this man compared to nobody
Yesterday, I prayed to the flowers and trees
Gratification to the powers that be
Synchronization with my energy chakras, the ghost of Dr. Sebi
Paid it forward, cleaned out my toxins, bacteria heavy
Sciatica nerve pinch, I don't know how to feel
Like the first time I fucked a white bitch
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
The first time I fucked a white bitch
I was sixteen at the Palisades
Fumblin' my grades, I traveled with the team
The apache life, Centennial was like
When Mrs. Baker screamed at Doughboy
Mixed that with Purple Rain
They interchanged the scenes
Happy just to be out the hood
With all the wealthy kids
Credit cards and family plans
She drove her daddy's Benz
I found out that he was a sheriff
That was a win-win
Because he had locked up Uncle Perry
She paid her daddy's sins
Next time I fucked a white bitch
Was out in Copenhagen
​good kid, m.A.A.d city tour
I flourished on them stages
Whitney asked did I have a problem
I said, "I might be racist"
Ancestors watchin' me fuck was like retaliation

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm a killer, he's a killer, she's a killer, bitch
We some killers, walkin' zombies, tryna scratch that itch
Germophobic, hetero and homophobic
Photoshoppin' lies and motives
Hide your eyes, then pose for the pic
[Interlude]
What the—

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Eight billion people on Earth, silent murderers
Non-profits, preachers and church? Crooks and burglars (Woo)
Hollywood corporate in school, teachin' philosophies
You either gon' be dead or in jail, killer psychology
Silent murderer, what's your body count? Who your sponsorship?
Objectified so many bitches, I killed their confidence (What the—)
The media's the new religion, you killed the consciousness (What the fuck?)
Your jealousy is way too pretentious, you killed accomplishments (What the fuck?)
Niggas killed freedom of speech, everyone sensitive (What the fuck?)
If your opinion fuck 'round and leak, might as well send your will (What the—)
The industry has killed the creators, I'll be the first to say (What the fuck?)
To each exec', "I'm saving your children"—We can't negotiate (What the—)
I caught a couple of bodies myself, slid my community
My last Christmas toy drive in Compton handed out eulogies
Not because the rags in the park had red gradient
But because the high blood pressure flooded the caterin'
So what's the difference 'tween your life when hiding motives?
More fatalities and reality bring you closure
The noble person that goes to work and pray like they 'posed to?
Slaughter people too, your murder's just a bit slower

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm a killer, he's a killer, she's a killer, bitch (What the fuck?)
We some killers, walkin' zombies, tryna scratch that itch (What the—)
Germophobic, hetero and homophobic
Photoshoppin' lies and motives
Hide your eyes, then pose for the pic'

Title: squabble up
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-squabble-up-lyrics
Song Description: squabble up is a West Coast-infused party anthem that showcases Kendrick Lamars unparalleled ability to combine infectious energy with sharp lyricism. Rooted in his California heritage, the track features elements of G-funk and hyphy, creating a dynamic and vibrant soundscape.

The title squabble up is drawn from L.A. slang, referring to fighting (similar to square up) or dancing, depending on the context. This dual meaning underscores the tracks themes of confrontation and celebration, offering a gritty yet electrifying energy.

The songs release was highly anticipated. A 15-second snippet first appeared in the Not Like Us music video on July 4, 2024, sparking immediate interest. The track gained further momentum when Mercedes AMG used it to promote their Formula One season, followed by its inclusion in an NBA broadcast, solidifying its cultural impact. These moments helped squabble up go viral on TikTok, with fans eagerly demanding its release. The track finally dropped on November 22, 2024, as part of Lamars surprise album GNX, much to the delight of his audience.

The accompanying music video, released on November 25, 2024, enhances the songs gritty, party-ready atmosphere with visuals that are a clear homage to Lamars West Coast heritage.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
God knows
I am reincarnated
I was stargazin'
Life goes on, I need all my babies (Gyah, gyah)
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar & Debbie Deb]
Woke up lookin' for the broccoli
High-key, keep a horn on me, that Kamasi
IP, ownership, the blueprint is by me
Mr. Get Off, I get off at my feet
When I hear music, it makes me dance
You got the music, now is your chance
A yee nigga couldn't try me in the tri-state
Buddy pass, bet I get him splashed 'til he hydrated
Bounce out, know he spook town, eyes dilated
I got the money and the power both gyratin'

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I feel good, get the fuck out my face
Look good, but shе don't got no taste
I walk in, walked out with the safе
Mando, let me know what the play

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
What the fuck?
I got hits, I got bucks, I got new paper cuts
I got friends, I got foes, but they all sitting ducks
Hit his turf and get crackin', double back like a deluxe
Fifty deep, but it ain't deep enough
Fuck a plea, there he go, beat him up
Fallin' from my money tree and it grow throughout the months
Spit a loogie at the camera, speed off, yeah, it's us
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I feel good, get the fuck out my face
Look good, but she don't got no taste
I walk in, walked out with the safe
Mando, let me know what the play

[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Squabble up, squabble up
Squabble up, squabble up
Squabble up (Mm, mm), squabble up (Mm, mm)
Squabble up (Mm, mm), squabble up
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Where you from? (Where you from?)
My bitch (My bitch)
I'm finna go dumb (Finna go dumb)
Sideways (Sideways)
Bunk skunk (Bunk skunk)
Fever (Fever)
I'm on one (I'm on one)

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Thunk, thunk, thunk, thunk, thunk, baby rockin' it
Quid pro quo, what you want? 'Cause I'm watchin' it
Work on the floor, let me know if you clockin' it
Brodie won't go, but I know that he poppin' it
It was woof tickets on sale 'til I silenced it
Pipe down, young, these some whole other politics
Bitch with him and some bitch in him, that's a lot of bitch
Don't hit him, he got kids with him, my apologies
Ghetto child, it was Black & Milds with the Smirnoff
Yeehaw, we outside, whoadie 'bout to kill him off
Blaps on blaps, it's a fact, this a brick of raw
Tell me why the fuck you niggas rap if it's fictional?
Tell me why the fuck you niggas fed if you criminal?
"Ayy, Dot, can I get a drop?" I'm like, "Nigga, nah"
Ace boon coon from the Westside to Senegal
It's a full moon, let the wolves out, I been a dog (Ah)
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I feel good, get the fuck out my face
Look good, but she don't got no taste
I walk in, walked out with the safe
Mando, let me know what the play
[Post-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Squabble up, squabble up
Squabble up, squabble up
Squabble up (Mm, mm), squabble up (Mm, mm)
Squabble up (Mm, mm), squabble up9Embed

Title: Ronald Reagan Era (His Evils)
Release Date: June 17, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-ronald-reagan-era-his-evils-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick once again vividly paints the dystopian picture of Compton, while simultaneously telling us that hes on the good lists of all the local gangs. Ab-Soul provides the song with additional ad-libs and lines.

The Ronald Reagan Era refers to the era when the hood became overrun with crack. As Juelz Santana would say, Kendrick can tell you what the 80s was like
Lyrics:

[Intro: Ash Riser]
We're far from good, not good from far
Ninety miles per hour down Compton Boulevard
With the top down, screamin', "We don't give a fuck"
Drink my forty-ounce of freedom while I roll my blunt
'Cause the kids just ain't alright

[Interlude: Ab-Soul]
Oh shit, nigga
Somethin' 'bout to happen
Nigga, this shit, nigga, this sound like thirty keys under the Compton court building
Hope the dogs don't smell it

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Welcome to vigilante, '80s, so don't you ask me
I'm hungry, my body's antsy, I rip through your fuckin' pantry
Peelin' off like a Xanny, examine my orchestra
Granny said when I'm old enough, I'll be sure to be all I can be
You niggas Marcus Camby, washed up
Pussy, fix your panties, I'm Mr. Marcus, you gettin' fucked, uh
You ain't heard nothin' harder since Daddy Kane
Take it in vain, Vicodins couldn't ease the pain
Lightning bolts hit your body, you thought it rained
Not a cloud in sight, just the shit that I write
Strong enough to stand in front of a travelin' freight train, are you trained?
To go against Dracula, draggin' the record industry by my fangs
AK clips, money clips, and gold chains
You walk around with a P90 like it's the '90s
Bullet to your temple, your homicide'll remind me
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & RZA]
That Compton Crip niggas ain't nothin' to fuck with
Bompton Pirus ain't nothin' to fuck with
Compton éses ain't nothin' to fuck with
But they fuck with me, and bitch, I love it
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop, woop-di-woop
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop (California Dungeons)
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop, woop-di-woop
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop (California Dungeons)

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Let's hit the county buildin', gotta cash my check
Spend it all on a forty-ounce to the neck
And in retrospect, I remember December being the hottest
Squad cars, neighborhood wars, and stolen Mazdas
I tell you motherfuckers that life is full of hydraulics
Up and down, get a six-four, better know how to drive it
I'm drivin' on E with no license or registration
Heart racin', racin' past Johnny because he's racist
1987, the children of Ronald Reagan
Rake the leaves off your front porch with a machine blowtorch (I'm really out here, my nigga)
He blowin' on stress, hopin' to ease the stress (Like, really out here)
He coppin' some blow, hopin' that it can stretch
Newborn massacre
Hoppin' out the passenger with calendars 'cause your day comin'
Run him down and then he gun him down, I'm hopin' that you fast enough
Even the legs of Michael Johnson don't mean nothin', because
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & RZA]
Compton Crip niggas ain't nothin' to fuck with
Bompton Pirus ain't nothin' to fuck with
Compton éses ain't nothin' to fuck with
But they fuck with me, and bitch, I love it
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop, woop-di-woop
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop (California Dungeons)
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop, woop-di-woop
Woop-di-woop, woop-di-woop-woop (California Dungeons)

[Refrain: Kendrick Lamar & Ab-Soul]
Can't detour when you at war with your city, why run for it?
Just ride with me, just die with me, that gun store right there
When you fight, don't fight fair, 'cause you'll never win
(Right, I had the yopper, and I tore they ass up)
Can't detour when you at war with your city, why run for it?
Just ride with me, just die with me, that gun store right there
When you fight, don't fight fair, 'cause you'll never win, yeah, yeah, yeah

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Woah, woah, woah-woah-woah-woah
Woah, woah, woah-woah-woah-woah
Woah, woah, woah-woah-woah-woah
Woah, woah, woah-woah-woah-woah

[Outro: Ab-Soul]
We really out here, my nigga
You niggas don't understand, my nigga
I'm off a pill and Rémy Red, my nigga
Trippin', my nigga110Embed

Title: ​untitled 03 | 05.28.2013.
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-03-05282013-lyrics
Song Description: Throughout this song, several minorities (Asians, Indians, and Blacks) give Kendrick a piece of themselvesadvising him on how to live his life better. However the majority (the white man) takes a piece of Kendrickto devaluate and capitalize off his talents. Likewise a piece of mines talks about the white man taking a piece of you to become a famous artist.

The original version was performed along with  Thundercat, Bilal, Terrace Martin, and Anna Wise on one of the final episodes of The Colbert Report in December 2014. According to Martin, the song was written the day before the performance as Kendrick didnt want to play his then-latest single, i.

Though Martin claimed there were no plans to release a studio version, one was released as untitled 03 | 05.28.2013. on untitled unmastered., a collection of untitled tracks, several of which were also performed on late night talk shows.

https://twitter.com/kendricklamar/status/706270048143306753
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
So I met this young lady, ya know, when I went back home. I was tryna spit my best game to her, you know, give her my best cap, but she kept on snapping her fingers like *snaps*. I said "You know what, girl? You crazy." Then she asked me what he said...
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar & Mani Strings]
(What did the Asian say?) "A peace of mind"
That's what the Asian said—I need a divine
Intervention was his religion and I was surprised
Him believing in Buddha, me believing in God
Asked him what are you doing, he said "taking my time
Meditation is a must, it don't hurt if you try
See you thinking too much, plus you too full of yourself
Worried about your career, you ever think of your health?"
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar & Mani Strings]
(What did the Indian say?) "A piece of land"
That's what the Indian said—I needed the man
Telling me longevity is in the dirt
Should buy some property first
Should profit a better dollar with generational perks
Equity at his best, really, you should invest
These tangible things expire, don't you expect
Income with so much outcome and yes
Look at my heritage, we blessed
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar & Mani Strings]
(Now, what the black man say?) "A piece of pussy"
That's what the black man said I needed to push me
To the limit, to satisfy my hunger
We do it all for a woman from haircut to a war
We like to live in the jungle, like to play in the peach
What you saying to me?
He said, "Nigga, come back to reality for a week"
Pussy is power, fuck on a new bitch every night
I wouldn't be prouder, you should allow it
You might also like[Verse 4: Kendrick Lamar & Mani Strings]
(What the white man say?) A piece of mine's
That's what the white man wanted when I rhyme
Telling me that he selling me just for $10.99
If I go platinum from rapping, I do the company fine
What if I compromise? He said it don't even matter
You make a million or more, you living better than average
You losing your core following, gaining it all
He put a price on my talent, I hit the bank and withdraw
Hit the bank and withdraw, hit the bank and withdraw
Put myself in the rocket ship and I shot for the stars
"Look at what you accomplishing"; what he said to the boy
"I'ma make you some promises that you just can't ignore
Your profession anonymous as an artist if I don't target your market
If you ain't signing your signature when I throw you my wallet
A lot of rappers are giving their demo all in the toilet
Your world tour, your master's, mortgage, I need a piece"
[Chorus: Bilal]
I holler, "What you do? What you say?"
I shall enjoy the fruits of my labor if I get freed today
I holler, "What you do? What you say?"
I shall enjoy the fruits of my labor if I get freed today
[Saxophone Interlude: Terrace Martin]
[Outro]
What the black man say?
Tell 'em we don't die, tell 'em we don't die
Tell 'em we don't die, we multiply
Tell 'em we don't die, tell 'em we don't die
Tell 'em we don't die, we multiply
Tell 'em we don't die, tell 'em we don't die
Tell 'em we don't die, we multiply
Tell 'em we don't die, tell 'em we don't die
Tell 'em we don't die, we multiply435Embed

Title: You Ain’t Gotta Lie (Momma Said)
Release Date: March 15, 2015, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-you-aint-gotta-lie-momma-said-lyrics
Song Description: The songs theme is based on common phrases, such as:

The loudest in the room is the weakest in the room.

or

Those who tell dont know and those who know dont tell.

Its title is a reference to the posthumously released 2Pac track, 1997s Lie To Kick Itwhich also inspired Ice Cubes You Aint Gotta Lie (Ta Kick It) in 2000; the latter of which is sampled here for good measure. Other notable interpolations include Fly Fo Life by Suga Free and Youre Getting a Little Too Smart by Detroit Emeralds.

Its a powerful message of the figurative purgatory that rappers and entertainers can enter if they are not stratospherically successful, yet not anonymous enough to return to their hood without receiving unwanted attention. There are racial undertones here, and the use of stereotypical black imagery paints Kendrick as a hood figure; but it can be applied to other aspects in life, where you feel pressure to perform or act a certain way.

Kendricks rational side is warning the listener not to lie for respect or personal gain. This furthers the albums message, as portrayed in tracks like For Sale? (Interlude) and For Free? (Interlude), where he criticizes those who think rap is inherently about money and power.
Lyrics:

[Produced by LoveDragon]

[Intro]
Study long, study wrong, nigga
Hey, y'all close that front door, y'all let flies in this motherfucker
Close that door!
My OG up in this motherfucker right now
My pops man with the bottle of Hennessy in his hand, actin' a fool
Hey, hey, babe, check it out, I'ma tell you what my mama had said, she like:
[Verse 1]
I could spot you a mile away
I could see your insecurities written all on your face
So predictable your words, I know what you gonna say
Who you foolin'? Oh, you assuming you can just come and hang
With the homies but your level of realness ain't the same
Circus acts only attract those that entertain
Small talk, we know that it's all talk
We live in the Laugh Factory every time they mention your name
[Refrain]
Askin' "where the hoes at?" to impress me
Askin' "where the moneybags?" to impress me
Say you got the burner stashed to impress me
It's all in your head, homie
Askin' "where the plug at?" to impress me
Askin' "where the juug at?" to impress me
Askin' "where it's at?" only upsets me
You sound like the feds, homie
You might also like[Chorus]
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta lie, you ain't gotta lie
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta try so hard
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta lie, you ain't gotta lie
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta try so hard
[Verse 2]
And the world don't respect you
And the culture don't accept you
But you think it's all love
And the girls gon' neglect you once your parody is done
Reputation can't protect you if you never had one
Jealousy (Complex), emotional (Complex)
Self-pity (Complex), under oath (Complex)
The loudest one in the room, nigga, that's a complex
Let me put it back in proper context
[Chorus]
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta lie, you ain't gotta lie
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta try so hard
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta lie, you ain't gotta lie
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta try so hard
[Refrain]
Askin' "where the hoes at?" to impress me
Askin' "where the moneybags?" to impress me
Say you got the burner stashed to impress me
It's all in your head, homie
Askin' "where the plug at?" to impress me
Askin' "where the juug at?" to impress me
Askin' "where it's at?" only upsets me
You sound like the feds, homie
(Pause)
[Verse 3]
What do you got to offer?
Tell me before we off ya, put you deep in the coffin
Been allergic to talkin', been a virgin to bullshit
And sell a dream in the auction, tell me just who your boss is
Niggas be fugazi, bitches be fugazi
This is for fugazi
Niggas and bitches who make habitual lyin' babies
Bless them little hearts
You can never persuade me
You can never relate me to him, to her, or that to them
Or you, the truth you love to bend
In the back, in the bed, on the floor, that's your ho
On the couch, in the mouth, I'll be out, really though
See, loud, rich niggas got low money
And loud, broke niggas got no money
The irony behind it is so funny
And I seen it all this past year
Pass on some advice we feel:
[Chorus]
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta lie, you ain't gotta lie
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta try so hard
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta lie, you ain't gotta lie
You ain't gotta lie to kick it, my nigga
You ain't gotta try so hard
[Crowd noise]

Title: Keisha’s Song (Her Pain)
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-keishas-song-her-pain-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick recorded this song for his little sister, instructing herthrough a narrative tragedyto never become a prostitute.

The parenthetical insert (Her Pain) is present because it communicates the idea of the pain women go through who have to resort to prostitution. NOTICE that this affliction isnt a vice, or evil like in Tammys Song (Her Evils)this is true pain from having to survive.

He is indeed telling her not to become a prostitute through vivid imagery, but it is in an effort to help develop her understanding of why women do such things. He is NOT demonizing prostitutes; he is merely pointing out that it is a profession that damages people. He wants his sister to see the woman behind every whore.



This track is recalled in Kendricks opus that followed Section.80GKMC. In verse 2 of Sing About Me, he takes on the perspective of Keishas sister who admonishes him:

How could you ever just put her on blast and shit Judging her past and shitwell its completely my future
A nigga behind me right now, askin' for ass and shit

TDE President, Punch, explained in an interview with Complex that this song was originally for GKMC:

Even Keisha (sic) Song was initially for good kid, m.A.A.d. city, but it was from a different point of view.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Tae Beast]

[Chorus: Ash Riser]
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh, and Lord knows she's beautiful
Lord knows the usuals leaving her body sore
She take the little change she make to fix her nail cuticles
Lipstick is suitable to make you fiend for more
She play Mr. Shakur, that's her favorite rapper
Bumpin' "Brenda's Got a Baby" while a pervert yellin' at her
And she capture features of a woman, but only seventeen
Then seven cars start honking
She start running like Flo-Jo, don't care if they Joe Blow
If they got money to blow, a blow job is a sure go
And sure enough, don't see a dime of dirty dollars
Just give it all to her daddy, but she don't know her father
That's ironic
See, a block away from Lueders Park, I seen an El Camino parked
And in her heart, she hate it there, but in her mind, she made it where
Nothin' really matters, so she hit the back seat
Rosa Parks never a factor when she makin' ends meet

[Chorus: Ash Riser]
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
And Lord knows she's beautiful
Lord knows the usuals leaving her body sore
Her anatomy is God's temple
And it's quite simple, her castle is 'bout to be destroyed
She's always paranoid, watching the law inside the streets
Undercovers, the dummies that look like decoys
Remember sergeant let her slide
Said if he seen what's between her thighs, he'd compromise
To no surprise
She took the ultimatum 'round the alleyway and gave him
A warm welcome, then felt him right below the navel
Though he was wired up like a pair of jumping cables
His eyes was closed shut, prior charges, he had waived 'em
It was a block away from Lueders Park, I seen a squad car parked
And in her heart, she hate it there, but in her mind, she made it where
Nothing really matters, so she hit the back seat
'Cause Rosa Parks never a factor when she toppin' off police

[Chorus: Ash Riser]
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
And Lord knows she's beautiful
Lord knows the usuals leaving her body sore
As she bust down like a twelve-bunk on tour
She suddenly realize she'll never escape the allure
Of a Black man, white man needing satisfaction
At first, it became a practice, but now she's numb to it
Sometimes she wonder if she can do it like nuns do it
But she never heard of Catholic religion or sinner's redemption, that sounds foolish
And you can blame it on her mother
For letting her boyfriend slide candy under her cover
Ten months before she was ten, he moved in and that's when he touched her
This motherfucker is the fuckin' reason why Keisha rushing to that
Block away from Lueders Park, I seen an El Camino parked
And in her heart, she hate it there, but in her mind, she made it where
Nothing really matters, still she hit the back seat
Then caught a knife inside the bladder, left for dead, raped in the street
Keisha's song, mmm
My little sister eleven, I looked her right in the face
The day that I wrote this song, sat her down and pressed play
[Chorus: Ash Riser]
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard, oh
Flagging down all of these flashy cars109Embed

Title: Blow My High (Members Only)
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-blow-my-high-members-only-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick Lamars track in honor of Aaliyah..

(RIP)

It samples a portion of Pimp Cs verse from his UGK collaboration on Jay Zs Big Pimpin'

It also samples 4 Page Letter by Aaliyah.

There is a connection in song titles. The previous song is Kush & Corinthians, whereas this one is called Blow My High.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Smoking out, pouring up, keep that lean up in my cup
All my car got leather and wood, in my hood we call it buck
Everybody wanna ball, holla at broads at the mall
If he up, watch him fall, I can't fuck with y'all
Pussy-ass, ho niggas (Niggas), I can't fuck with y'all
Bitches all up in my business (Business), I can't fuck with y'all
Industry of counterfeits (Counterfeits), I can't fuck with y'all

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Taking off when you landing
Bitch niggas gonna throw tantrums
And I'm dancing on them stars
The galaxy ain't got room for y'all
Ain't nothing gonna happen soon for y'all
While I'm here and every day I hear
Your bullshit, self-pity
Reason why you never dealt with me
Reason why your girl dealt with me
Hands up, in the building, we get busy and say

[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P., yep
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P., yep
That's exactly what this sound like
A to the A to the L-I-Y-A-H, give it up two times
Then give it right back, don't blow my high
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Smoking out, pouring up, keep that lean up in my cup
All my car got leather and wood, in my hood we call it buck
Everybody wanna ball, holla at broads at the mall
If he up, watch him fall, I can't fuck with y'all
Pussy-ass, ho niggas (Niggas), I can't fuck with y'all
Bitches all up in my business (Business), I can't fuck with y'all
Industry of counterfeits (Counterfeits), I can't fuck with y'all

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Look at my life then look at yours
Get some ambition, why you bored?
Time'll never wait on no man
Society will never hold your hand
Niggas like to gossip like bitches
Got me thinking you don't like bitches
Wonder what's behind them Ray Bans?
Eyes of a coward, I understand
Niggas like to gossip like bitches
Sip Dom Pérignon, when we finish, we say

[Pre-Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P., yep
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P., yep
That's exactly what this sound like
But never will I ever forget Left Eye
Roll up, put a ribbon in the sky
And a button on your lips, don't blow my high
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Smoking out, pouring up, keep that lean up in my cup
All my car got leather and wood, in my hood we call it buck
Everybody wanna ball, holla at broads at the mall
If he up, watch him fall, I can't fuck with y'all
Pussy-ass, ho niggas (Niggas), I can't fuck with y'all
Bitches all up in my business (Business), I can't fuck with y'all
Industry of counterfeits (Counterfeits), I can't fuck with y'all

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar & Aaliyah]
Now everybody sing this shit
I'm sending him a four-page letter
And I enclosed it with a kiss (A kiss)
And when I write him, he better
Get it on time
Look at my life, and look at yours
Get some ambition why you bored

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P
R.I.P. Aaliyah, R.I.P105Embed

Title: gnx
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-gnx-lyrics
Song Description: GNX is the eleventh track on Kendrick Lamars album of the same name. The song was released on Friday, November 22nd, 2024. The track features Kendrick flexing his power within the rap game, with the visual of the same name on YouTube emphasizing his Buick GNX truck.

This song is a high-energy anthem that radiates unapologetic pride and hustle, with Kendrick Lamar and his collaborators asserting dominance in the rap game and on the streets. Each verse highlights personal triumphs, street credibility, and resilience, reflecting a shared commitment to representing their roots and staying true to their experiences. The recurring hook, Tell em [name] did it, underscores their influence in reviving the West Coasts prominence and their roles as trendsetters. With vivid storytelling, gritty imagery, and a celebratory tone, the song solidifies their legacies while inspiring others to own their achievements unapologetically.

Via Instagram, producer Rascal states that he sent the beat to Kendrick only two days ago on November 20th, 2024. Kendrick proposed a beat saying:

I want it some ignorant west shit
 but let the drums have space
Im bout to hit the studio now.

GNX muscle car 1987.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Tell 'em Kendrick did it, ayy, who showed you how to run a blitz?
Tell 'em Kendrick did it, who put the West back in front of shit?
Tell 'em Kendrick did it, ayy, I'm trippin' and I'm lovin' it
Tell 'em Kendrick did it, like, wha—
Hi, have you ever been a joint and you know it?
Have you ever had to flip your unemployment?
On the dead guys, nigga, I ain't goin'

[Verse 1: Peysoh]
Ayy, on the dead ones
We'll treat an enemigo like some bread crumbs
All of my killers on go, like, who said somethin'?
Redrum, all I think about when I see heads comе
Do my dance, hit the chop when I see opps go
Lеt 'em claim it, we the ones who really pop, bro
Don't televise it, we the ones who lettin' chops blow
Opps know, let 'em piss him off and it's a flop show
Murder man, singin' murder music off a murder van
Beat the pussy up like I been celibate and I murder sound
Who is him? One and only shotta, known as murder man
Catch you doin' dirty, it's no other way but murder plans
I broke her heart and you the type to go and fix it
Don't wanna speak if you ain't talkin' 'bout no ticket
I'm bougie with it, but I might just let you kiss it
Hit that block with diamonds on me, you could tell 'em Peysoh did it
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Peysoh]
Tell 'em Peysoh did it, ayy, who showed you how to run a blitz?
Tell 'em Peysoh did it, who put the West back in front of shit?
Tell 'em Peysoh did it, ayy, I'm trippin' and I'm lovin' it
Tell 'em Peysoh did it, like, wha—
Hi, have you ever been a joint and you know it?
Have you ever had to flip your unemployment?
On the dead guys, nigga, I ain't goin'

[Verse 2: Hitta J3 & Kendrick Lamar]
Hop out suicide doors, it's the Hitta, man
You don't wanna see them doors slidin' on the Caravan
I know killers who was catchin' bodies and not one fade
I was thirteen up at Avalon, poppin' chains
Fourteen, ridin' minibikes with some dead friends
Twenty-one, flag on my head like a Taliban
Twenty-five, feelin' like the box, it was full of sand
At the cemetery, fuck that, that's where I could've been
142nd, I'm connected like I'm Rosecrans
Kinda shit I seen, try and forget and I will pop a Xan'
Uppin' scores, doin' files, sacrifices like a boxing ring
Can't throw in the towel, pistol-packin' since a child
Ayy, like it's Iraq, shooter name Hussein
Ridin' with the dirty blicky, switchy, make a new flame
She said I been a dog all my life, bae, can you change?
True to my religion, Cuban links, more than two chains
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & Hitta J3]
Tell 'em Hitta did it, ayy, who showed you how to run a blitz?
Tell 'em Hitta did it, who put the West back in front of shit?
Tell 'em Hitta did it, ayy, I'm trippin' and I'm lovin' it

[Verse 3: YoungThreat]
It's gettin' down to the wire
Get on my Bob the Builder shit, get down with the pliers
Been comin' back-to-back hits, how this nigga ain't tired?
I'm with some rockstar bitches, they want Lizzie McGuire
I'm switchin' gears, I pop the clutch, I'll send a nigga up
A risk-taker, I'll call you niggas' bluff
If they hangin' out for real, we come deduct, tuckin' tails, they out of luck
When it's wartime, they hidin' in the cut
Y'all had y'all chance, y'all couldn't do it
I swear I'm comin' worse than y'all baby moms, I'm puttin' niggas through it
They hate to see me doin' it
Meal ticket, I'm pursuin' it
I'm in the field for real, UCLA Bruins
They askin' how I do it, how a young nigga so fluent
I kept my mouth closed and I ain't never leave no witness
D.O.A. up on the scene, tell 'em YoungThreat did it, nigga4Embed

Title: The Day The Party Died
Release Date: September 11, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-day-the-party-died-lyrics
Song Description: The Day The Party Died came as a surprise release via Kendrick Lamars Instagram on September 11, 2024, at approximately 5 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. Initially, the song did not have a known title, as the post contained no text or caption. Tentative titles included: Dear God and Watch The Party Die.

The piece arrived shortly after Kendricks announcement that he would be headlining the Halftime Show at Super Bowl LIX in New Orleans, Louisiana. This is his first musical release since the number one hit single Not Like Us, a diss track aimed at Drake.

Additionally, the track was released at the start of the 2024 VMAsa seemingly calculated move that underscores Kendricks message. Much of the track expresses his frustration with the current state of the music industry and hip-hop culture, specifically critiquing what commercial artists like Drake represent: materialism, hedonism, and the glorification of superficial success. By dropping the track during such a high-profile cultural event, Kendrick shifts attention away from the mainstream celebration of commercial music and forces listeners to engage with the deeper issues plaguing the industry.

The cover art features a pair of black Nike Air Force 1s, which came from a supposedly random eBay listing:
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
I think it's time to watch the party die
This shit done got too wicked to apologize
It's different, get him whacked and disqualified
We even kill the killers 'cause they like taking innocent lives
Burn the whole village, we start over, it's really that time
Why reason with these niggas if they can't see the future first?
Why argue with these clowns if the circus is well at work?
Just walk that man down, that'll do everyone a solid
It's love, but tough love sometimes gotta result in violence
If you parade in gluttony without givin' truth to the youth
The graveyard is company, just tell us what casket to choose
They party more than bitches, tell me, what are you working for?
They glorify scamming, you get chipped over this credit card
Influencers talk down 'cause I'm not with the basic shit
But they don't hate me, they hate the man that I represent
The type of man that never dickride 'cause I want a favor
The man that resides in patience, so where the soldiers at?
The ones that lost it all and learnt to learn from that
A thirst for life, head inside a book 'cause he concerned with that
Information that'll change his life because he yearns for that
Dedication, findin' out what's right 'cause he can earn from that
I feel for the women that deal with the clown and nerd shit
Can't blame them, today they ain't really got much to work with
How many bitches harder than a lot of you niggas?
Would trade all of y'all for Nip, I can't be proud of you niggas
You might also like[Chorus]
God, give me life, dear God, please give me peace
Dear God, please keep these lame niggas away from me
Dear God, keep me shinin', the fuck do they really think?
Pocket-watching, you must be the police
God, bless these words, dear God, bless how I think
Dear God, draw the line, they tryna confuse 'em with me
Dear God, please forgive me, you knowin' how hard I tried
I think it's time for me to watch the party die (Uh-huh, huh)
Get 'em gone, we gon' watch the party die (Uh-huh)
Send 'em home, we gon' watch the party die

[Verse 2]
I think it's time to watch the party die
Street niggas and the corporate guys, the rappers that report the lies
I need they families mortified
We can do life without 'em, get they bodies organized, tell me if you obliged
No more pillow-talkin', jump-startin' neighborhood wars
Dirty-mackin' bitches because your spirit is insecure
The flashy nigga with nasty decisions usin' money as a backbone
I want his head cracked before he's back home
The radio personality pushin' propaganda for salary
Let me know when they turn up as a casualty
I want agony, assault, and battery, I see a new Earth
Filled with beautiful people makin' humanity work
Let's kill the followers that follow up on poppin' mollies from
The obvious degenerates that's failing to acknowledge the
Hope that we tryna spread, if I'm not his vote
Then you need to bring his fuckin' head, or film that shit in hi-res
[Chorus]
God, give me life, dear God, please give me peace
Dear God, please keep these lame niggas away from me
Dear God, keep me shinin', the fuck do they really think?
Pocket-watching, you must be the police
God, bless these words, dear God, bless how I think
Dear God, draw the line, they tryna confuse 'em with me
Dear God, please, forgive me, you knowin' how hard I tried
I think it's time for me to watch the party die

[Verse 3]
Sometimes I wonder what Lecrae would do
Fuck these niggas up or show 'em just what prayer do?
I want to be empathetic, my heart like Dee-1
But I will—
It's time to get these devils out the way, heavy metals on my sword
We settle hard disputes today, the ghetto Hollywood divorce
Say hello to your future fate, the culture bred with carnivores
You let 'em snack, they eat your face, the signatures is bein' forged
They wonder why I'm not enthused to drop
The more visible you get, the more your spiritual is tried
It's cynical to say I know these artists petrified
The end result, in jail by Jezebel or drugged up full of lies
Critical, I know my physical is tested all the time
I'm pitiful, sunken place soon as I'm questionin' my pride
I'm seein' ghosts, blackin' out, relapsin' one thought at a time
I spare no feelings that ain't mine, I'm in my feelings when I slide, I mean
A nigga wonder what Lecrae would do
Terrace Martin said I'm mentally with layers, true
I flood the market with my best regards, I paid your dues
And so it's up, if you ain't one of ours, it's bad news
My nigga Jay Estrada said I gotta burn it down to build it up
That confirmation real as fuck, it ain't too many real as us
Lockin' in to what I trust, lookin' outside
The kids live tomorrow 'cause today, the party just died23Embed

Title: Look Out For Detox
Release Date: November 19, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-look-out-for-detox-lyrics
Song Description: Look Out For Detox was recorded as a promotion forDr. Dres unreleased Detoxwhich attained semi-mythical status over thedecade-plus periodsince it was first announced. Dre, however, confirmed the death ofDetoxin late 2015, in advance of the release of Compton.

The song was produced byChildish Gambino. The beat also can be heard on Gambinos song You Know Me.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Uh, shoutout to ScHoolboy Q
He uglier than a motherfucker (laughs)

[Verse]
Tire marks, tire marks
Finish line with the tire marks
When the relay starts I’m a runaway slave
Ugh, walking on water and running on waves
God MC, oh my God, you gotta see
There’s never no I's in me
Of an Odyssey, I’m a block away
Fire marshal's moving in
Marshmallows inside my pen
Sweet sixteens
Got a sweet sixteen and they deadlier than sin
I’m so appalled
With the prototype with a godly protocol
You an amateur, they wanna pro to call
I damage ya on camera, in Compton, in Canada
I don’t care where ya are
Just blink twice and I’m there where you are
Like a shadow in the dark, you a paddle in the boat
In an ocean full of sharks bout to come up short
Water in the pot, flow crack rock like Bam Bam nigga
Have two grams nigga pay up or blam blam nigga
Had a black Camry, bumpin' Dipset, Killa Cam nigga
I had been around niggas, killas, pimps
You ain’t been around shit but your momma and your bitch
Shoved off the porch when I was like six
Uncle Bobby got the house raided back in 9-6
Kick in the door
K9s all in the kitchen way before I even heard of Mike Vick
Momma in the bathroom poppa at work
Happened on Sunday we shoulda went to Church
Look at my shirt, Polo on it
It’s gon' sell if my logo on it
I fear no opponent
A demon come near and I might throw a spear at the omen
You looking at the 2010 Romans
Empire, Hiiipower HP, in ya face like HD
And I spit like a HK
I’ma shot like a H3, H-U-B-C-I-T-Y, A-B and Y-G
Problem and Hootie nigga
Tell the government come shoot me, nigga
Cause I’m going out with a fist raised
And a fist full of money give it to the fifth grade
Drink a fifth of Hennessy and then take another fade
With a democratic politician from CA
They don’t wanna see a B-L-A-C-K
Making some scratch like a hall of fame DJ
Give us some free J’s put us in PJs
Now we in the county jail calling for a three-way
God-Damn, y'all cold
Mark of the beast wear your god damn bar-code
Stuck in the street where it's dark like Harpo
Black man tell me where your God-Damn heart go
Although I’m in the land of milk and honey
Nobody never gave me shit, when I got my first chain
All the niggas tried to take it from me
I had to fight back and shit
Take it back and shit
And you rap niggas looking funny tryna talk back and shit
Like he back that shit
Acting like you real or something
Nigga ain't popped no steel, ain't popped no collar
Go pop some pills or something
You trying real hard to appeal to someone
I’m being myself, my BFF is a BM-dub
With your BM in it and your stash box glove
And the medicine a doctor gave a nigga won't help
I’m at the limit where I be amazing myself
I bet I finish on a level with a Black belt
I bet I hit it where every rapper get killed, like
Bla bla bla bla where the knife at?
Cut cut cut where your life at?
Your careers over, he’s slumped over
And if I'm off beat know I’m un-sober
That's a new flow
Pl-, Plus Q gave me some Kush and some Nuvo
New dough for the new year and I sumo on a rap peer
Not a rapper, I’m a raptor
That's a T-Rex in a V-neck for the rapture
I’m a factor and your facial
I will fracture to a fraction
No one-half and I hate math
Pastor’s like Eddie long, fucking maricon
Took me mighty long to get here
Nigga, Fuck!You might also like164Embed

Title: The Spiteful Chant
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-spiteful-chant-lyrics
Song Description: The Spiteful Chant was originally the ninth track on Kendrick Lamars first full-length project, Section.80. It was produced by Sounwave and Dave Free, and contains a sample from Iron by Woodkid:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vSkb0kDacjs

The downtempo anthem touches on various themes, including patience, perseverance, dealing with two-faced people, and overcoming adversity. In August 2019, Genius reported on the songs removal from streaming services, likely due to sample clearance issues.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Sounwave]

[Pre-Chorus 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I know a lot of people that smile in my face
But talk behind my back every time I'm gone
So when they call my number, I don't never pick up
I don't owe you shit, bitch, leave me alone
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Too many niggas, not enough hoes
And some of you niggas, acting like hoes
Stay to myself like loners do
Get high by myself, I'm not in the mood
To politic or be fake with you
We apologize if you ever knew
Too many niggas, and not enough hoes
And most of you niggas, acting like hoes

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Everything I do is too alumni
I'ma take my time, I'ma master it
You should be mindful of a mastermind
Put a landmine right where your momma live
Now blow up, blow up, hold up, I've seen your kind before
See me as a dollar sign 'til I resign or you report
That I done you wrong, and I'm leaning on my own  endeavors
Nigga right now, it's now or never
Nigga right now, I'm high as ever, but however...
You might also like[Pre-Chorus 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I know a lot of people that smile in my face
But talk behind my back every time I'm gone
So when they call my number, I don't never pick up
I don't owe you shit, bitch, leave me alone
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Too many niggas, not enough hoes
And some of you niggas, acting like hoes
Stay to myself like loners do
Get high by myself, I'm not in the mood
To politic or be fake with you
We apologize if you ever knew
Too many niggas, and not enough hoes
And most of you niggas, acting like hoes

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Everybody heard that I fuck with Dre
And they wanna tell me, I made it
Nigga I ain't made shit, if he gave me a handout
I'ma take his wrist and break it
Nigga, I'm faded off of that Nuvo, chilling with two hoes in here
And they tie my laces, living the Matrix as them pills disappear
Me and my niggas just acting bad HiiiPower conglomerate
Living that life and counting this cash old friends I no longer have
[Pre-Chorus 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I know a lot of people that smile in my face
But talk behind my back every time I'm gone
So when they call my number, I don't never pick up
I don't owe you shit, bitch, leave me alone
I'm going big, suck my dick
I'm going big, suck my dick

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Too many niggas, not enough hoes
And some of you niggas, acting like hoes

[Verse 3: ScHoolboy Q & Kendrick Lamar]
I remember when I came out and shit
Man, it's been so long since they see my dick
Probably been five months since I seen my seed
Goddammit, K. Dot, when it come to this?
When I was sleeping on couches
Nigga couldn't get a call, just a Glock for my vouch
Nigga I was mothafuckin' out, yeah
With the flashing lights had me stuck like reindeer
When I should have been making bank, yeah
I was somewhere stuck where the flame is
Mothafucka, see how far that I came here
Went broke and I came up in the same year, can I get a hell yeah?
Drop my tear, hold my joy, show my pride
Music saved my fucking life, I'm doing right and you left behindFeel my pain, now I'm styling, Hermès shit, I spent a thousand
Different homes, different islands
Dropped my mixtape and it sold like an album
[Pre-Chorus 2: Kendrick Lamar & ScHoolboy Q]
Reason why I'm be going big, bitch, suck my dick
Yeah, I'm going big, bitch, suck my dick
Tell 'em I'm going big, bitch, suck my dick
Yeah, I'm going big, bitch, suck my dick (Yeah)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Too many niggas, not enough hoes
And some of you niggas, acting like hoes
Stay to myself like loners do
Get high by myself, I'm not in the mood
To politic or be fake with you
We apologize if you ever knew
Too many niggas, and not enough hoes
And most of you niggas, acting like hoes

[Outro: Alori Joh]
Like hoes, like hoes, like hoes, like hoes
Like hoes, nigga actin like a hoe
Like hoes, like hoes, like hoes
You actin like a hoe, you actin like a hoe
You actin like a hoe, niggas actin like a hoe
Like hoes, like hoes, like hoes, like hoes96Embed

Title: Hol’ Up
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-hol-up-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick tells the story of how he meets an attractive stewardess whom he starts flirting with and eventually sleeps with on the aircraft. Particular connotations and double meanings allude that the stewardess in this song may be a metaphor for hip-hop.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
I wrote this record while thirty thousand feet in the air
Stewardess complimenting me on my nappy hair
If I can fuck her in front of all of these passengers
They'll probably think I'm a terrorist, eat my asparagus
Then I'm asking her thoughts of a young nigga
Fast money and freedom, a crash dummy for dollars
I know you dying to meet him, I'll probably die in a minute
Just bury me with twenty bitches, twenty million, and a Comptown fitted

[Chorus]
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Yeah, big shit poppin'
Section.80

[Verse 2]
Back in this bitch, in the back of that bitch
With my back against the wall and your bitch on the edge of my dick, jump off
I call a bitch a bitch, a ho a ho, a woman a woman
I never did nothing but break the ground on top of the asphalt
Tire mark gave you evidence that I'm easily peddlin'
With the speed of a lightning bolt
As a kid, I killed two adults, I'm too advanced
I lived my twenties at two years old, the wiser man
Truth be told, I'm like eighty-seven
Wicked as eighty reverends in a pool of fire with devils holding hands
From a distance, don't know which one is a Christian, damn
Who can I trust in 2012? there's no one, not even myself
A Gemini screaming for help, somebody
You might also like[Chorus]
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Yeah, big shit poppin', everybody watchin'
When you do it like this, nigga, losing ain't a option
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Yeah, big shit poppin'
Ayy, ayy, kick her out the studio, Ali

[Verse 3]
24/7, nigga working his ass for it, she poppin' that ass for
The King of Diamonds with diamonds, I never do ask for it
They checkin' my passport, I'm too accustomed with customs
You callin' the task force, I killed it, somebody cuff him
They want me to fast forward the game, and
Why you complain when you niggas is past poor?
You'll never hop in my lane when you pushing a RAV4
You wrecking my Jaguar
You play like a bad sport
Her feet on the dashboard

[Chorus]
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Yeah, big shit poppin', everybody watchin'
When you do it like this, nigga, losing ain't an option
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up), hol' up (Hol' up)
Yeah, big shit poppin', everybody watchin'
When you do it like this, nigga
[Outro]
I wrote this record while thirty thousand feet in the air
Stewardess complimenting me on my nappy hair
If I can fuck her in front of all of these passengers
They'll probably think I'm Osama
The plane emergency landed, it was an honor
Hol' up111Embed

Title: Compton
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-compton-lyrics
Song Description: As a closing track for the album, Kendrick teams up with the executive producer and West coast legend Dr. Dre.

Other than Bitch, Dont Kill My Vibe, this is the only track from present-day Kendricks perspective. In an interview with Google Play, Kendrick spoke on the song:

I wrote the lyrics the day I met Dre. I easily got inspired, I just started writing. And that was actually the first studio session I had with Dre. Thats the last song on the album for a specific reason. Thats the first song I did with Dre, that was the start of my new life.

The song acts as an epilogue to the story, in which Kendrick is looking retrospectively upon the events of the narrative/his own life experiences and conveying how hes turned himself away from a potential life of crime, alcoholism, violence etc. instead becoming someone hes more proud of and someone who can try to tell the younger generations living in similar situations that they can turn their lives around too. The album then comes full circle by including the lines that precede the albums first track.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Just Blaze]

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Now everybody serenade the new faith of Kendrick Lamar
This is King Kendrick Lamar
King Kendrick and I meant it, my point intended is raw
Fix your lenses forensics would've told you Kendrick had killed it
Pretend it's a massacre and the masses upon us
And I mastered being the master at dodging your honor
And the chapter that read at 25 I would live dormant like five in the morning
They raid your spot while Kendrick's performing
And if they take everything, know I got

[Chorus]
Compton, Compton
Ain't no city quite like mine
[Verse 2: Dr. Dre & Kendrick Lamar]
Ay, Dre what's happening wit' it, my nigga?
Still I'm at it, peel the plastic off it, you can feel the magic
Still I'm laughing at the critics talking, I can see 'em gagging
When I'm back in the back of my city, back in the 'bach
With a batch of them banging Dre Beats with me, look where I'm at
It's the murder cap' and I'm captain at birthing this gangsta rap
It's a wrap when I'm done and I come a long way from a hundred dollars a month
To a hundred mil' in a day, bitch I'm from
You might also like[Chorus]
Compton, Compton
Ain't no city quite like mine

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
So come and visit the tire screeching, ambulance, policeman
Won't you spend a weekend on Rosecrans, nigga?
Khaki creasing, crime increasing on Rosecrans, nigga
Kendrick Conan, nigga
Where you sword at, hand on the cross and swore that
I do it big as Rasputia for them shooters
Kama Sutra scream fuck your position and make you hold that
I'm trying to stay grounded like four flats
But I know flats and Piru Crip tats

[Bridge]
Will swarm on me like a beehive
Hop in the G ride
From the West to the Eastside
Know that's just how Compton roll

[Verse 4: Dr. Dre & Kendrick Lamar, Both]
And that's a given
I pass the blunt then pass the torch of course that's my decision
I crash the Porsche then you report that you see me in Benzes
I must report that we import the narcotics you bought it
Then talked about it when crack hit the speakers, the music business
I blow up every time we throw up a record
Depending on what you expecting, I'm sure it's bigger than your religion
Perfected by niggas that manifested music to live in
[Chorus]
Compton, Compton
Ain't no city quite like mine

[Verse 5: Dr. Dre]
So tell that gangster throw his set high
Roll it up in a blunt, I'ma take you on the next high
I did exactly what I wanted that's what made them checks fly
In my direction, you never questioned when I said I
Would be a mogul before I visit 2Pac and Left-Eye
Eazy and Aaliyah when I see you we gon' test drive
A Lambo in heaven but for now I'm on the redeye
Flying back to my city cuz I'll forever standby

[Chorus]
Compton, Compton
Ain't no city quite like mine

[Verse 6: Kendrick Lamar]
Now we can all celebrate
We can all harvest the rap artists of N.W.A
America target our rap market, as controversy and hate
Harsh realities we in made our music translate
To the coke dealers, the hood rich
And the broke niggas that play
With them gorillas that know killers
That know where you stay
Roll that kush, crack that case, ten bottles of rosé
This was brought to you by Dre
Now every motherfucker in here say:
"Look who's responsible
For taking Compton international
I make 'em holla"
[Outro]
Ayo Just Blaze, good looking homie
Just Blaze
Ain't no city quite like mine, yeah
In the city of Compton
Ain't no city quite like mine
[Skit]
Mom, I finna use the van real quick!
Be back, 15 minutes!

Title: Fuck Your Ethnicity
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-fuck-your-ethnicity-lyrics
Song Description: In this opening song, Kendrick launches right into the story of Keisha and Tammy in the loose concept album Section.80. He uses these two characters to explore issues facing those born in the 1980s, touching on topics such as the Ronald Reagan government, sexuality, and drugs. Fuck Your Ethnicity is his exploration of racial issues. Kendrick has said that he notices his fans are of all races and backgrounds. He welcomes anyone that can relate to him and understand his story, regardless of color. He is trying to do away with race as a common division between people.

Note that the album title is a play on the public housing program known as Section 8. In 1982, Ronald Reagan cut funding to the Section 8 program in half. He spent the next few years fighting against any government assistance for housing for the poor. Critics and historians argue that one of Reagans biggest legacies was to increase the divide between the rich and poor in America.
Lyrics:

[Skit]
Gather 'round
I'm glad everybody came out tonight
As we stand on our neighborhood corner
Know that this fire that's burning represents the passion you have
Listen
Keisha, Tammy, come up front
I recognize all of you
Every creed and color
With that being said
Fuck your ethnicity
You understand that?
We gon' talk about a lot of shit that concerns you, all of you

[Intro: Alori Joh]
Now everybody, throw your hands up high
If you don't give a fuck, throw your hands up high
Throw your hands up high

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Now, I don't give a fuck if you
Black, white, Asian, Hispanic, goddammit
That don't mean shit to me
Fuck your ethnicity, nigga

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Fire burning inside my eyes, this the music that saved my life
Y'all be calling it hip-hop, I be calling it hypnotize
Yeah, hypnotize, trapped my body, but freed my mind
What the fuck are you fighting for? Ain't nobody gon' win that war
My details be retail, man, I got so much in store
Racism is still alive, yellow tape and colored lines
Fuck that, nigga, look at that line, it's so diverse
They gettin' off work and they wanna see Kendrick
Everybody can't drive Benzes, and I been there, so I make it my business
To give 'em my full attention, ten-hut, man, I gotta get my wind up
Man, I gotta get down with God 'cause I got my sins up, ooh
Matter fact, don't mistake me for no fuckin' rapper
They sit backstage and hide behind them fuckin' cameras
I mosh pit, had a microphone and I tossed it
Had a brain, then I lost it
I'm out of my mind, so don't you mind how much the cost is
Penny for my thoughts, everybody, please hold up your wallets
Yeah, man, I'm the mailman, can't you tell, man?
Gone postal, never freeze up when I approach you
That's starstruck and roast you, oh my
HiiiPower
You might also like[Interlude: Kendrick Lamar]
Reporting live from Planet Terminator X
I saw Martin Luther King with an AK-47

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Now, I don't give a fuck if you
Black, white, Asian, Hispanic, goddammit
That don't mean shit to me
Fuck your ethnicity, nigga

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm tired of y'all, 'cause everybody lied to y'all
And you believe it? Recognize them false achievements
It's treason and I'm Tylenol, I knock out when you knock it off
Knock on the doors of opportunity, I'm too involved
I'm no activist, I'm no Einstein
Before calculus, I was kicking that math
Dropping that science like an alchemist and I be kicking that ass
Lyrically, I'm UFC
If a UFO had came for me, I'ma come back with the head of an alien
Don't alienate my dreams
Get it right, get a life, I got two
That's a metaphor for the big shit I do
Boy, TMI, TSA, man, I'm fly
Put wings on my back
That a plane or an angel? Both
Like a pilot with a halo, woah
Gross
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
I mean, I've seen so many things come through them, him, her, you, mmm, mmm, mmm, mmm
I'm just a messenger
Yeah, I know life's a bitch, get the best of her
Put them threes up, they notice that we up
HiiiPower and the power in the people and if they don't believe us
They'll die
Wizard

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Now, I don't give a fuck if you
Black, white, Asian, Hispanic, goddammit
That don't mean shit to me
Fuck your ethnicity, nigga89Embed

Title: untitled 05 | 09.21.2014.
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-05-09212014-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick debuted parts of his first verse during his 2016 Grammys performance. The track explores power disparities and social inequality. Minorities are institutionalized and, in turn, this affects their sense of normality, creating destructive behaviour.

https://twitter.com/kendricklamar/status/706974471932891136
Lyrics:

[Hook: Anna Wise & Kendrick Lamar]
Somebody said you bumped your head and bled the floor
Jumped into a pit of flames and burned to coal
Drowned inside the lake outside, away you flow
And that means the world to me
And that means the world to me
And that means the world to me
And that means the world to me
Somebody said you bumped your head and bled the floor
Jumped into a pit of flames and burned to coal
Drowned inside the lake outside, away you flow
And this I know
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I got 100 on my dash, got 200 in my drum
Name in the grab bags, put my Bible in the trunk
Taaka vodka on the top of my binocular, I'm drunk
How come I can make them popular, pop em' when I want
See I'm livin' with anxiety, duckin' the sobriety
Fuckin' up the system, I ain't fuckin' with society
Justice ain't free, therefore justice ain't me
So I justify his name on obituary
Why you wanna see a good man with a broken heart?
Once upon a time I used to go to church and talk to God
Now I'm thinkin' to myself, hollow tips is all I got
Now I'm drinkin' by myself, at the intersection, parked
Watch you when you walk inside your house
You threw your briefcase all on the couch
I plan on creeping through your fuckin' door and blowin' out
Every piece of your brain until your son jump in your arms
Cut on the engine, then sped off in the rain, I'm gone
You might also like[Hook: Anna Wise]
Somebody said you bumped your head and bled the floor
Jumped into a pit of flames and burned to coal
Drowned inside the lake outside, away you flow
And that means the world to me
And that means the world to me
And that means the world to me
And that means the world to me
[Verse 2: Punch & Kendrick Lamar]
He drove alone, with a bottle of his own grippin' the handle
Lit off Henny, I'm tryna dismantle
These wicked ways, I've engaged in such a gamble
'Cause I could speak the truth and I know the world would unravel, wait
That's a bit ambitious maybe I'm trippin'
Maybe I'm crazy, maybe I exist in a different dimension
Not to mention when I close my eyes I see the distance
It's such a scary sight so I rarely go to sleep at night
I watch the sun rise then I watch the sun fall
Studied the son of God and still don't recognize my flaws
I guess I'm lost, the cost of being successful is equal to being neglectful
I pray my experience helps you
As for me I'm tryna sort it out
Searching for loopholes in my bruised soul
But who knows?
I just need a little space to breathe
I know perception is key, so I am king
[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar & Jay Rock]
The other side has never mortified my mortal mind
The borderline between insanity is Father Time
I fall behind my skeleton, they tell me that I'm blind
I know that I'm intelligent, my confidence just died
Carpe diem, seize the day, I can't compromise
A tapeworm couldn't cure this gluttonous appetite
A couple trinkets, they seein' me as I pacify
But couldn't fathom the meaning of seein' sacrifice
I'm passin' lives on the daily, maybe I'm losing faith
Genocism and capitalism just made me hate
Correctionals and these private prisons gave me a date
Professional dream killers reason why I'm awake
I'm sleepwalkin', I'm street stalkin', I'm outta place
Reinforcing this heat barking, these are the brakes
Before I blink, do I see me before them pearly gates?
Or this is just a mirage or a facade
Wait55Embed

Title: reincarnated
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-reincarnated-lyrics
Song Description: reincarnated kicks off the second section of GNX with a continuation of the Spanish-language poem introduced at the beginning of the album.

Driven by a sample of 2Pacs Made N****z, the instrumental is a respectful resurrection of the West Coast legends legacy, contrasting Drakes use of AI-generated 2Pac vocals during his beef with Kendrick months earlier.

In the song, Kendrick writes about artists to whom he feels connected both artistically and personally: his past lives. The first is John Lee Hooker, a revolutionary R&B guitarist from Michigan whose breakthrough single was released in 1948. The second, a female Chitlin' Circuit vocalist who achieved widespread fame and fortune but struggled with substance abuse, is most likely Dinah Washington.

Since both these artists were in their prime around the same time, rather than explicitly suggesting that his soul inhabited each of their bodies before his own, Kendrick is likely suggesting that the black community today can inherit and build upon the artistic greatness of those who came before, while learning from their mistakes and shortcomings.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Deyra Barrera]
Que reflejan tu mirada
La noche, tú y yo
[Verse 1]
I got this fire burnin' in me from within
Concentrated thoughts on who I used to be, I'm sheddin' skin
Every day, a new version of me, a third of me demented, cemented in pain
Juggling opposing kinds of fame
I don't know how to make friends, I'm a lonely soul
I recollect this isolation, I was four years old
Truth be told, I've been battling my soul
Tryna navigate the real and fake
Cynical about the judgement day
I did bad, slight progression last year and it fucked me up
Reincarnated on this earth for a hundred plus
Body after body, lesson after lesson, let's take it back to Michigan in 1947
My father kicked me out the house 'cause I wouldn't listen to him
I didn't care about his influence, only loved what I was doing
Gifted as a musician, I played guitar on the grand level
The most talented where I'm from, but I had to rebel
And so I'm off in the sunset, searchin' for my place in the world
With my guitar up on my hip, that's the story unfurled
I found myself with a pocket full of money and a whole lot of respect
While the record business loved me
I was head of rhythm and blues
The women that fell to they feet, so many to choose
But I manipulated power as I lied to the masses
Died with my money, gluttony was too attractive, reincarnated
You might also like[Verse 2]
Another life had placed me as a Black woman in the Chitlin' Circuit
Seductive vocalist as the promoter hit the curtains
My voice was angelic, straight from heaven, the crowd sobbed
A musical genius what the articles emphasized
Had everything I wanted, but I couldn't escape addiction
Heroin needles had me in fetal position, restricted
Turned on my family, I went wherever cameras be
Cocaine, no private planes for my insanity
Self-indulged, discipline never been my sentiments
I needed drugs, to me, an 8-ball was like penicillin
Fuck love, my happiness was in that brown sugar
Sex and melodies gave me hope when nobody's lookin'
My first assistant was a small town scholar
Never did a Quaalude 'til I got myself around her
My daddy looked the other way, he saw sin in me
I died with syringes pinched in me, reincarnated
[Verse 3]
My present life is Kendrick Lamar
A rapper looking at the lyrics to keep you in awe
The only factor I respected was raisin' the bar
My instincts sent material straight to the charts, huh
My father kicked me out the house, I finally forgive him
I'm old enough to understand the way I was livin'
Ego and pride had me looking at him with resentment
I close my eyes, hoping that I don't come off contentious
I'm yelling, "Father, did I finally get it right?" Everything I did was selfless
I spoke freely, when the people needed me, I helped them
I didn't gloat, even told 'em, "No," when the vultures came
Took control of my fleshly body when the money changed
Son, you do well, but your heart is closed
I can tell residue that linger from your past creates a cell
Father, I'm not perfect, I got urges, but I hold them down
But your pride has to die," okay, Father, show me how
Tell me every deed that you done and what you do it for
I kept one hundred institutions paid
Okay, tell me more
I put one hundred hoods on one stage
Okay, tell me more
I'm tryna push peace in L.A. 
But you love war
No, I don't
Oh, yes, you do
Okay, then tell me the truth
Every individual is only a version of you
How can they forgive when there's no forgiveness in your heart?
I could tell you where I'm going
I could tell you who you are
You fell out of Heaven 'cause you was anxious
Didn't like authority, only searched to be heinous
Isaiah fourteen was the only thing that was prevalent
My greatest music director was you
It was colors, it was pinks, it was reds, it was blues
It was harmony and motion
I sent you down to earth 'cause you was broken
Rehabilitation, not psychosis
But now we here now
Centuries you manipulated man with music
Embodied you as superstars to see how you moving
You came a long way from garnishing evilish views
And all I ever wanted from you was love and approval
I learned a lot, no more putting these people in fear
The more that word is diminished, the more it's not real
The more light that I can capture, the more I can feel
I'm using words for inspiration as an idea
So can you promise that you won't take your gifts for granted?
I promise that I'll use my gifts to bring understanding
For every man, woman and child, how much can you vow?
I vow my life just to live one in harmony now
You crushed a lot of people keeping their thoughts in captivity
And I'm ashamed that I ever created that enemy
Then let's rejoice where we at
I rewrote the devil's story just to take our power back, 'carnated15Embed

Title: luther
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-and-sza-luther-lyrics
Song Description: Luther  is the 3rd track on Kendrick Lamars 6th studio album, it marks the 5th collaboration between him and long-time friend, SZA.

The song is built on lush instrumentals and effortlessly fluent lyrical exchanges, putting SZA & Kendricks notorious chemistry on full display.

In Kendricks verses, he raps about envisioning a world where pain and conflict are eradicated, replaced by light and empowerment for his lover, and how she keeps him grounded, level-headed and inspired. SZAs ethereal voice provides a soulful counterpart, infusing the track with raw vulnerability and a deep yearning for connection and growth with her partner.

The chorus unites their voices, grounding the song and conveying the desire to uplift and to help their partner through trials and tribulations.
Lyrics:

[Intro]
If this world were mine

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Hey, Roman numeral seven, bae, drop it like it's hot
If this world was mine, I'd take your dreams and make 'em multiply
If this world was mine, I'd take your enemies in front of God
Introduce 'em to that light, hit them strictly with that fire
Fah-fah, fah-fah-fah, fah-fah, fah
Hey, Roman numeral seven, bae, drop it like it's hot
If this world was mine, I'd take your dreams and make 'em multiply
If this world was mine, I'd take your enemies in front of God
Introduce 'em to that light, hit them strictly with that fire
It's a vibe, do your dance, let 'em watch
She a fan, he a flop, they just wanna kumbaya, nah

[Chorus: SZA, SZA & Kendrick Lamar]
In this world, concrete flowers grow
Heartache, she only doin' what she know
Weekends, get it poppin' on the low
Better days comin' for sure
If this world were—
If it was up to me
I wouldn't give these nobodies no sympathy
I'd take away the pain, I'd give you everything
I just wanna see you win, wanna see
If this world were mine
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar & SZA]
It go in (When you), out (Ride it), do it real slow (Slide)
Baby, you a star, strike, pose
When I'm (When you), with you (With me), everything goes (Slow)
Come and (Put that), put that (On my), on my (Titi), soul (Soul)
'Rari (Red), crown (Stack), wrist (Stay), froze (Really)
Drip (Tell me), pound (If you), on the way home (Love me)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar & SZA]
In this world, concrete flowers grow
Heartache, she only doin' what she know
Weekends, get it poppin' on the low
Better days comin' for sure
If this world were—
If it was up to me
I wouldn't give these nobodies no sympathy
I'd take away the pain, I'd give you everything
I just wanna see you win, wanna see
If this world were mine

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar & SZA]
I can't lie
I trust you, I love you, I won't waste your time
I turn it off just so I can turn you on
I'ma make you say it loud
I'm not even trippin', I won't stress you out
I might even settle down for you, I'ma show you I'm a pro
I'ma take my time and turn it off
Just so I can turn you on, baby
Weekends, get it poppin' on the low
Better days comin' for sure
[Outro: SZA]
I know you're comin' for
Better days
If this world were mine16Embed

Title: Mirror
Release Date: May 13, 2022, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-mirror-lyrics
Song Description: Mirror is the outro to Kendrick Lamars fifth studio album, Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers. He discusses the pressures of fame and the dichotomy of living selfishly despite his modest image.

The songs production sees a heavy Funk and Neo Soul influence due to the bounciness of the beat. The heavy drums in the background of the track give the song an 80s skate-like vibe, forcing Kendricks cadence to follow its pattern.

In the song, Kendrick articulately sums up the majority of the themes of the album. Mirror serves as a metaphor for ones own personal growth, suggesting to Kendrick fans that despite his long wait to release music, they shouldnt wait on him and should grow on their own.

Kendrick makes it clear that due to his newborn daughter, his oldest child, and his wife, he will always put himself firstexcept for his familyas he cant sacrifice the little time he has with his family for anyone.

What may seem to be a more basic album outro in comparison to DAMN.s outro, DUCKWORTH., the songs deeper meaning reflects on his wait to release music, exhibiting his growth for his fans. Kendrick speaks deeply about the pressure he feels in order to take care of his family in the best way, subsequently, taking time off to find himself.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kodak Black]
I choose me

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
The pressure's taking over me, it's beginning to loom
Better if I spare your feelings and tell you the truth
Lately, I redirected my point of view
You won't grow waitin' on me
I can't live in the Matrix, huh
Rather fall short of your graces, huh
This time, I won't trade places, huh
Not about who's right, who's wrong, huh
Evolve, the only thing known, huh
Ask me when I'm coming home, huh
Blink twice again, I'm gone

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
She woke up in the morning for the daily news
I was so low and mourning through the family feuds
Baby, I told you a story and laid down all the rules
Still, you won't grow waiting on me
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
'Cause all of it's toxic
Girl, I'm not relevant to givin' on profit
Personal gain off my pain, it's nonsense
Darlin', my demons is off the leash for a moshpit
Baby, I just had a baby, you know she need me
Workin' on myself, the counselin' is not easy
Don't you point a finger just to point a finger
'Cause critical thinkin' is a deal-breaker
Faith in one man is a ship sinking
Do yourself a favor and get a mirror that mirror grievance
Then point it at me so the reflection can mirror freedom
She told me that she need me the most, I didn't believe her
She even called me names on the post, the world can see it
Jokes and gaslightin'
Mad at me 'cause she didn't get my vote, she say I'm triflin'
Disregardin' the way that I cope with my own vices
Maybe it's time to break it off
Run away from the culture to follow my heart
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
I realized true love's not savin' face
But unconditional
When will you let me go?
I trust you'll find independence
If not, then all is forgiven
Sorry I didn't save the world, my friend
I was too busy buildin' mine again

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry
I choose me, I'm sorry61Embed

Title: tv off
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-tv-off-lyrics
Song Description: tv off is the seventh track from Kendrick Lamars sixth studio album, GNX. This collaboration marks a reunion with producer Mustard, who previously worked with Lamar on the acclaimed track Not Like Us. Their partnership, which generated significant commercial successdebuting at number one on the Billboard Hot 100has since been recognized with accolades, including awards at the MTV Video Music Awards and five nominations for the 2025 Grammy Awards. This context sets the stage for tv off, which builds on the momentum of their prior success.

Detailed Themes and Analysis
Authenticity:
In tv off, Kendrick Lamar engages with the concept of authenticity in a world increasingly dominated by superficiality and facades. He articulates a yearning for genuine connections and experiences, expressing disillusionment with the artifice prevalent in both personal relationships and the broader societal landscape. The title itself suggests a deliberate disconnection from the distractions of modern life, such as television and social media, which often promote unrealistic expectations and narratives. This act of turning the tv off symbolizes a conscious choice to seek truth and realness in a time when easy escapism is readily available.

Accountability:
Lamars lyrics are imbued with a sense of accountability, challenging both himself and his listeners to confront their actions and the implications of their choices. Throughout the track, he calls out individuals and institutions that propagate deception, urging them to take responsibility for the impact their behavior has on their communities and society at large. This theme of accountability extends beyond external critique; it serves as a personal reflection on his journey, emphasizing the importance of owning ones past and striving for personal growth.

Survival:
The song also touches on themes of survival in a chaotic world, where distractions can lead individuals astray. Lamar presents a stark reality where survival is not just about physical endurance but also about mental and emotional resilience. In a society fraught with pressureswhether they be from fame, societal expectations, or materialismhe emphasizes the necessity of cultivating a strong sense of self and maintaining genuine relationships as vital tools for navigating adversity. This acknowledgment of inner strength aligns with his broader artistic narrative, which often highlights the struggles faced by marginalized communities.

Critique of Societal Distractions and False Loyalties:
A significant aspect of tv off is its critique of societal distractions, such as consumer culture, entertainment, and superficial relationships. Lamar scrutinizes how these distractions can lead to false loyalties, where individuals align themselves with trends or personas rather than authentic ideals or values. He suggests that in the pursuit of likes, followers, or superficial companionship, many lose sight of what truly matters, resulting in a deeper sense of isolation and confusion.

Self-Reliance and Genuine Connections:
Ultimately, Kendrick Lamar advocates for self-reliance and the pursuit of authentic connections. He underscores the importance of surrounding oneself with individuals who share similar values and aspirations, fostering a supportive community amidst a chaotic and often disingenuous world. This call for self-sufficiency resonates throughout his discography, where he frequently emphasizes the significance of introspection and the power of personal agency.

In summary, tv off serves as a profound commentary on the state of society, exploring themes of authenticity, accountability, and survival against a backdrop of deception and distractions. Kendrick Lamars lyrical prowess, combined with Mustards production, creates a compelling narrative that encourages listeners to reflect on their own lives and prioritize genuine connections in a world often characterized by superficiality.
Lyrics:

[Part I]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
All I ever wanted was a Black Grand National
Fuck being rational, give 'em what they ask for

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
It's not enough (Ayy)
Few solid niggas left, but it's not enough
Few bitches that'll really step, but it's not enough
Say you bigger than myself, but it's not enough (Huh)
I get on they ass, yeah, somebody gotta do it
I'll make them niggas mad, yeah, somebody gotta do it
I'll take the G-pass, shit, watch a nigga do it
Huh, we survived outside, all from the music, nigga, what?

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
They like, "What he on?"
It's the Alpha and Omega, bitch, welcome home
This is not a song
This a revеlation, how to get a nigga gone
You need you a man, baby, I don't understand, baby
Pay your bill and makе you feel protected like I can, baby
Teach you somethin' if you need correction, that's the plan, baby
Don't put your life in these weird niggas' hands, baby (Woah)
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
It's not enough (Ayy)
Few solid niggas left, but it's not enough
Few bitches that'll really step, but it's not enough
Say you bigger than myself, but it's not enough (Huh)
I get on they ass, yeah, somebody gotta do it
I'll make them niggas mad, yeah, somebody gotta do it
I'll take the G-pass, shit, watch a nigga do it
Huh, we survived outside, all from the music, nigga, what?

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Hey, turn this TV off
Ain't with my type activities? Then don't you get involved
Hey, what, huh, how many should I send? Send 'em all
Take a risk or take a trip, you know I'm trippin' for my dog
Who you with? Couple sergeants and lieutenants for the get back
This revolution been televised, I fell through with the knick-knacks
Hey, young nigga, get your chili up, yeah, I meant that
Hey, black out if they act out, yeah, I did that
Hey, what's up, though?
I hate a bitch that's hatin' on a bitch and they both hoes
I hate a nigga hatin' on them niggas and they both broke
If you ain't coming for no chili, what you come for?
Nigga feel like he entitled 'cause he knew me since a kid
Bitch, I cut my granny off if she don't see it how I see it, hm
Got a big mouth but he lack big ideas
Send him to the moon, that's just how I feel, yellin'
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
It's not enough (Ayy)
Few solid niggas left, but it's not enough
Few bitches that'll really step, but it's not enough
Say you bigger than myself, but it's not enough

[Part II]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Huh
Huh, huh
Hey
Hey (Mustard on the beat, ho)

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Mustard
Niggas actin' bad, but somebody gotta do it
Got my foot up on the gas, but somebody gotta do it
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off

[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
Ain't no other king in this rap thing, like siblings
Nothing but my children, one shot, they disappearin'
I'm in a city with a flag, be gettin' thrown like it was pass interference
Padlock around the building
Crash, pullin' up in unmarked truck just to play freeze tag
With a bone to pick like it was sea bass
So when I made it out, I made about fifty K from a show
Tryna show niggas the ropes before they hung from a rope
I'm prophetic, they only talk about it how I get it
Only good for saving face, seen the cosmetics
How many heads I gotta take to level my aesthetics?
Hurry up and get your muscle up, we out the plyometric
Nicarana by the lux, soon as I up the highest metric
The city just made it sweet, you could die, I bet it
They mouth get full of deceit, let these cowards tell it
Walk in New Orleans with the etiquette of L.A., yellin'
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Mustard (Ah, man)
Niggas actin' bad, but somebody gotta do it
Got my foot up on the gas, but somebody gotta do it
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off
Huh, turn this TV off, turn this TV off

[Outro: Lefty Gunplay]
Shit gets crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Shit gets crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Shit gets crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Shit gets crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious
Crazy, scary, spooky, hilarious15Embed

Title: Black Boy Fly
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-black-boy-fly-lyrics
Song Description: The second bonus track off of Kendrick Lamars major-label debut album Good Kid, m.A.A.d city. It focuses on Kendrick seeing people from his neighborhood rise up and achieve greatness.

Interestingly, the subject of this song seems to form the basis of the thesis for his next album, the masterpiece To Pimp A Butterfly, the idea of looking back on Compton having left.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Rahki & Dawaun Parker]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
So I'm saying, "What up? What up? Nigga, you made it"
So I'm saying, "What up? What up? Nigga, you made it"
So I'm saying, "What up? What up? Nigga, you made it"
So I'm saying, "What up? What up? Nigga, I hate it"
So I'm saying, "What up? What up? Nigga, I hate it"
Frustrated and I'm riding down them back streets
Making my conscience ask me
"Will I survive to make it up out this hole in time?"
Black boy fly, black boy fly
Black, black boy fly, black boy fly
[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I used to be jealous of Arron Afflalo
I used to be jealous of Arron Afflalo
He was the one to follow
He was the only leader foreseeing brighter tomorrows
He would live in the gym, we was living in sorrow
Total envy of him, he made his dream become a reality
Actually making it possible to swim
His way up outta Compton with further more to accomplish
Graduate with honors, a sponsor of basketball scholars
It's 2004 and I'm watching him score thirty
Remember vividly how them victory points had hurt me
'Cause every basket was a reaction or a reminder
That we was just moving backwards
The bungalow where you find us
The art of us ditching classes, heading nowhere fast
Stick my head inside the study hall, he focused on math
Determination ambition, plus dedication and wisdom
Qualities he was given was the shit we didn't have
Dug inside of his book bag and Coach Palmer asked for his finals
He had his back like a spinal, meanwhile
We singing the same old song spinning the vinyl
Eleven graders gone wrong
He focused on the NBA, we focused on some Patron
Now watch that black boy fly
You might also like[Chorus: Anna Wise]
Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly
Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly
Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly
Black boy

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
I used to be jealous of Jayceon
I used to be jealous of Jayceon Taylor when I was young
Taylor made a career out of music from writing songs
A Buick had driven past bumping him when I mowed the lawn
Money laundering hustling, homies pondering up against
Schemes to make a million even if doing you harm
War's the case and just in case you wasn't alarmed
The city had fought with firearms and many had died before dawn
It's 2004 and I'm hearing the people roar
For the name of The Game, they line in front of the store
Swap meets, selling our mixtapes, I'm like, "Oh shit, wait"
Don't wanna be another nigga stuck regretting mistakes
Mixed feelings was my opinion, I was defending my insecurities
Chillin' my conscience next to a villain
Compton made you believe success wasn't real
Be honest, none of us knew of a record deal
So as I peel through these lottery tickets
I see a Harley Davidson truck visit the same plaza we shopped
A tall nigga hopped out with Jordans and a white tank top
He was top of the rap game, we was the top of the block
So watch that black boy fly
[Chorus: Anna Wise]
Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly
Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly
Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly
Black boy

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
My mama didn't raise me up to be jealous-hearted
Like most of the winners call it
Regardless of where you stay, hold your head and continue marching
That's what she said, but in my head I wanted to be like Jordan
Award touring the country with money from mic recording
The only way out the ghetto, you know the stereotype
Shooting hoops or live on the stereo like Top 40
And shortly, I got discouraged
Like every time I walked to the corner, had them guns bursting
Nigga, I was rehearsing in repetition the phrase
That only one in a million will ever see better days
Especially when the crime waves was bigger than tsunamis
Break your boogie boards to pieces, you just a typical homie
All these niggas facetious and they all standing beside me
They all'll buy me a chopper if any one of you try me
What am I to do when every neighborhood is an obstacle?
When two niggas making it out had never sounded logical?
Three niggas making it out? That's mission impossible
So I never believed the type of performance that I could do
I wasn't jealous cause of the talents they got
I was terrified they'd be the last black boys to fly out of Compton
Thank God
(Black boy fly, watch that black boy fly)

Title: hey now
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-hey-now-lyrics
Song Description: hey now  is the 5th track of Kendrick Lamars surprise sixth studio album, GNX.

In the song, Kendrick conveys the message that he is greeting the rap industry unexpectedly, an idea is reinforced by the fact the album was a surprise release. It also features a guest verse from the underground LA native Dody6, who was freed from incarceration on August 17.

He believes he is way too important and at peace to be slid on or exploited by the music industry. The song serves as a bold declaration to rise above adversity, avoid distractions, and protect ones vision and purpose while navigating the complexities of life and ambition.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Damn, baby
I like it
Damn
Hmm

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Hey now, say now, I'm all about my Yen
Big face Buddha, get my peace from within
Send the kites to all my dirties in the pen
Let the honorary walk for the win, for the win
You crash out, then you better break the backboard
I got friends, hopin' that they make the tabloids
You know the last one figured he was Magneto
You play God, you gon' get what you ask for
We got the same twenty-four, what you mad for?
I put a square on his back like I'm Jack Dorsey
It's high beams if I make a public appearance
Go back to hidin' 'cause I'm not too friendly with niggas
One one thousand, two one thousand, four
The Black know I just strangled me a goat
I walked in with a therapeutic flow
Put a few hundred up, let 'em go, let 'em go

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
Hmm, hey now, say now
Hey now, say now, I'm all about my Yen
Big face Buddha, get my peace from within
Send the kites to all my dirties in the pen
Let the honorary walk for the win, for the win
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Hey now, say now, I done slid on they backstreet
Heavy on the Parmesan, every day tax season
What the fuck you wearin'? Bro, it's tacky
Niggas layin' on they death bed tryna match me
Oh my God, I'm 'bout to do the fool
They be screamin' out P, but they resume is boof
Switch both lanes, the engine sound like the zoo
Need a fee just to breathe, bitch, I can't talk to you
It's the Ben Frank murderer
Mister, I ain't heard of ya
Gulf streams, back to back, flyin' through the turbulence
Who is he? Free lunch, hmm, Kraft Services
Throw your ass out this rental if I smell nervousness
Hey now, say now, let me pop my shit
Water down my wrist, I'm around my bitch
It's a green light, don't get out of bounds, I'ma blitz
It's a bird, it's a plane, no, it's all blue strips
Nigga, what?

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
Hey now, say now
Hmm, hey now, say now
I'm way too important
I'm way too important
I'm way too important to ever let you slide on me again
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Startin' to see spaceships on Rosecrans (Startin' to see spaceships on Rosecrans)
I seen the aliens hold hands (I seen the aliens hold hands)
They wanna see me do my dance (They wanna see me do my dance)
I let 'em watch me do my dance

[Verse 3: Dody6 & Kendrick Lamar]
Who the fuck I feel like? I feel like Joker
Harley Quinn, I'm in the cut with a blower
Ayy, shit get spooky, every day in October
My torpedo even jumped out on smokers, J-Cat
Ayy, we mean muggin' niggas, Dody too important
If they talkin' 'bout playin' ball, me and my team gon' get to scorin'
If they talkin' 'bout playin' ball, they can take it up with Jordan
It's bald heads and the heckling for all endorsements
Eenie, meenie, miny, moe, I'm tryna tag a nigga toe
I'm aggressive on the beat and real life, niggas know
Ayy, I tatted up my body, it depend, level four
Ayy, I sharpened up a knife and came home to a blow
My bitch gon' get to tweakin' like she playin' with her nose
Lil' brodie 'bout to crash, man, y'all niggas be on go
I'm a different type of trophy, baby girl, I'm rose gold
Me and Dot get to slidin', put 'em in a choke hold
Bitches actin' like some niggas, niggas actin' like some hoes
Ayy, I jumped out that pan, then I jumped up in a Ghost
I'm the hush type of nigga, see my face, then he froze
All that shit he was talkin', found out he not that bold
Okay, this shit like forty, that's a dub, okay, let's add it up
Baby ass fat, can you do it? Can you back it up?
Kickflip a nigga, I got Tech Decks
And it ain't shit for me to call and get your chin checked
Tell 'em, "Dody did that"

Title: The Heart Pt. 2
Release Date: September 14, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-heart-pt-2-lyrics
Song Description: This is the first song from Kendrick Lamars official mixtape, sometimes stylized as O(verly) D(edicated), where he raps over an extended version of The Roots' 2010 instrumental A Peace of Light. Kendrick has previously stated that this is his favorite song on the tracklist. According to a 2011 SoulCulture interview at SXSW, it features one of his favorite original verses.

He adopts a stream-of-consciousness flow, expressing his thoughts as they come to him in the studio. The song is also the sequel to April 2010s The Heart Pt. 1 and was followed by 2012s The Heart Pt. 3 (Will You Let it Die?), 2017s The Heart Pt. 4 and 2022s The Heart Part 5

In a 2017 interview with Rolling Stone, he explained what led to this song:

I remember saying to myself, I just wanna show a spew of emotion on a record. I dont care how long the bars are, but people are literally gonna have to feel me. I told myself that if I cant connect that way, then it aint no point in me just putting a bunch of good words together. So that spaz-out toward the end, where I just choke up and lose my breath  I wanna keep all that.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Dash Snow, Daniel Joseph & Kendrick Lamar]
"I’ll tell you what I don’t believe in, can I do that? All right, I don’t believe in laws, or the system by any means, whatsoever. I try not to obey them at anytime. That's what I believe in not believing in."
"So what keeps you alive?"
"Four big bottles of water a day, two packs of Marlboro Reds. And, uh, I don’t - what keeps me alive, shit. Music, I have to listen to music all day long. I'd say that keeps me going. I’m a pretty dark person, I’ve thought about ending it a million times. And I have to say that music keeps me here, by far, the main thing."
Thank you

[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
Sitting in the studio thinking about which mood would go
Right now, freestyle or write down, whatever
It still'll come up clever, I just need to free my thoughts
And Lord knows that I know better, but I ain't perfect
I ain't seen too many churches or know them testament verses
You should either hear me now or go deaf
Or end up dead, die trying and know death
Might end up dead, swallow blood, swallow my breath
Fuck a funeral, just make sure you pay my music respect, nigga
I mean that from the bottom of my heart
You see my art is all I have
And victory tastes sweet, even when the enemy can throw salt
Still knock them out the park like a fucking tow car
Let bygones be bygones, but where I'm from
We buy guns and more guns to give to the young
I'm living the life of a nigga trapped, nigga
Inside the system all you envision is trap niggas
My uncle doing life inside prison; he wasn't wrapped too tight
He told me "Rap about life, not rap niggas"
That's why I'm shaking my head when you rap-dissin'
My stomach start turning, my nerves get to twitching
I start evaluating, then my final intuition
Is that you wishing a come up, would just come up
We used to beefing over turf, fuck beefing over a verse
Niggas dying, motherfuck a double entendre
And this is Comp-ton, lions in the land of the triumph
Wrap-Saran our defiance, ban our alliance
Put burners in the hands of the black man
One hood with 20 four-fours like a cloned Kobe Bryant
You probably heard I wanna be heard and wonder who I am
You probably even listened to "Faith," and think I know Zion
But really I'm just caught in the loop, of understanding the truth
Because it seem like it's always clashing with science
I got a big fear of flying
My future so bright I'd probably go blind before I blink twice
I ain't lying
I swear to God, half of y'all just don't know Kendrick
The school of hard knocks, we was the first ones in attendance
You walking down the block, he got shot, you are no eye witness
You just mind your business
You just turn your head, kneel down and then tie your tennis
It's kind of scary, ain't it?
You can't act like no bitch, that only got Tyler Perry famous
Just let me explain this, why you pick up that stainless?
'Cause your pops wasn't anxious to see you and you hate it
So much you probably had your burner tucked at graduation
So if you see him on 'em bleachers then you kill him
Facing 25 to life with a murder charge
Your enemies was the prey and now you pray to God
I pray these bars get farther than Compton
And if our record never break, I still won’t break my promise
I promise to keep it honest
Secret society, all we ask is trust
And all we lack is communication like service sucks
The people scared of annihilation when Kingdom Come
And I'm like, "The Kendrick Lamar OD in less than a month, all right?"
Gotta keep it pushing
Can't let the government tell me how my future looking
I'm on Rosecrans and Central trying to duck the central bookins'
If the fucking pigs get behind me then you know I'm bookin'
Never will I surrender
I been a warrior when I came out my mom's placenta
In the gutter lane like I'm Master Splinter
How splendid, I guess my project had did it
Got all these niggas approaching they mixtapes different
They said seven tracks, I said 15
Called it an EP, they said I’m trippin'
But little did they know, I’m tryna' change the rules
That we’ve been confined to, so the corporate won’t make decisions
Uppity bitches handling business
Killing our dreams, stealing our vision
Out in Haiti, adolescents barely have a home
In LA everybody think they fucking on
Hop on Twitter, perpetrate we doing big shit
Who we hanging with and bragging about the iPhone
I swear to God most of y'all cats just don’t know Kendrick
You barely know yourself, so I guess most of y'all should be offended
Ain’t doing this for my health, I’m tryna' purchase my momma dem' Benzes
Occupying my time with riches, justifying my time ambitions
Just to coincide, just to go inside, plus we idolize why we living
Look, the mastermind took the master's mind
Just the perfect time, just to master mine
Just to match the grind with precision
Look, the mastermind took - (cough)
You might also like[Outro: Alori Joh]
We would like to call this an appreciation tape for those who recognized the Kendrick Lamar EP. For this is the Kendrick Lamar OD. Because of you we are Overly Dedicated

[Produced by The Roots]

Title: ​i (Single Version)
Release Date: September 23, 2014, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-i-single-version-lyrics
Song Description: i is the first single from Kendrick Lamars third studio album, To Pimp a Butterfly, although a different version appeared on the record. Kendrick received two Grammys for this version of the song at the 57th Grammy Awards for Best Rap Song and for Best Rap Performance.

The up-tempo track once again delves deep into Kendricks personal perspective on the world. While premiering the track on LAs Power 106, Kendrick explained the song is about self expression, inspired by the lack of self love on the streets of Compton.

The track further explores subjects he already covered  and personally explained on Genius  in his song Real from good kid, m.A.A.d city:

http://rap.genius.com/2339642

Also, check out our breakdowns of the:


Album Version
SNL Version
Production
Cover Art
Lyric Video
Music Video
Merchandise
Lyrics:

[Produced by Rahki]​​

[Intro]
This is a world premiere (This is a world premiere)
This is a world premiere
I done been through a whole lot
Trial, tribulation, but I know God
Satan wanna put me in a bow tie
Pray that the holy water don't go dry, yeah, yeah
As I look around me
So many motherfuckers wanna down me
But an enemigo never drown me
In front of a dirty double-mirror, they found me
[Chorus]
And I love myself
(The world is a ghetto with big guns and picket signs), I love myself
(But it can do what it want, whenever it want, I don't mind), I love myself
(He said I gotta get up, life is more than suicide), I love my, self
(One day at a time, sun gon' shine)

[Verse 1]
Everybody lookin' at you crazy (Crazy)
What you gon' do? (What you gon' do?)
Lift up your head and keep moving (Keep moving)
Or let the paranoia haunt you? (Haunt you)
Peace to fashion police, I wear my heart
On my sleeve, let the runway start
You know the miserable do love company
What do you want from me and my scars?
Everybody lack confidence, everybody lack confidence
How many times my potential was anonymous?
How many times the city making me promises?
So I promise this
You might also like[Chorus]
I love myself
(The world is a ghetto with big guns and picket signs), I love myself
(But it can do what it want whenever it want, I don't mind), I love myself
(He said I gotta get up, life is more than suicide), I love my, self
(One day at a time, sun gon' shine)

[Verse 2]
They wanna say it's a war outside and a bomb in the street
And a gun in the hood, and a mob of police
And a rock on the corner, and a line for the fiend
And a bottle full of lean, and a model on the scene, yup
These days of frustration keep y'all on tuck and rotation
I duck these cold faces, post up "fi-fie-fo-fum" basis
Dreams of reality's peace (Ayy, ayy)
Blow steam in the face of the beast
The sky could fall down, the wind could cry now
The strong in me, I still smile
[Chorus]
I love myself
(The world is a ghetto with big guns and picket signs), I love myself
(But it can do what it want, whenever it want, I don't mind), I love myself
(He said I gotta get up, life is more than suicide), I love my, self
(One day at a time, sun gon' shine)
[Bridge]
Walk my bare feet (Walk my bare feet)
Down, down, valley deep (Down, down valley deep, I love myself)
Fi-fie-fo-fum (Fi-fie-fo-fum, I love myself)
My heart undone (My heart undone, I love myself)

[Refrain]
The world is a ghetto with big guns and picket signs (I love myself)
But it can do what it want, whenever it want, I don't mind (I love myself)
He said I gotta get up, life is more than suicide (I love my, self)
One day at a time, sun gon' shine (Hold up)

[Verse 3]
I went to war last night
With an automatic weapon, don't nobody call a medic
I'ma do it 'til I get it right
I went to war last night
I've been dealing with depression ever since an adolescent
Duckin' every other blessin', I can never see the message
I could never take the lead, I could never bob and weave
From a negative and letting them annihilate me
And it's evident I'm moving at a meteor speed
Finna run into a building, lay my body in the street
Keep my money in the ceiling, let my mama know I'm free
Give my story to the children and a lesson they can read
And the glory to the feeling of the holy unseen
Seen enough, make a motherfucker scream, "I love myself"
[Outro]
I lost my head
I must've misread what the good book said
Oh, woes keep me, it's a jungle inside
Give myself again 'til the well runs dry (I)

[Car Horns]

Title: Cut You Off (To Grow Closer)
Release Date: September 14, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-cut-you-off-to-grow-closer-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick spits about how hes trying to grow as an ambitious person and experience life. However, there are negative influences in his life that hold him back.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Tae Beast]

[Intro]
Ali, you thirsty on Twitter!
You boo-boo, you T'd
You turned down, you thirsty
You boo-boo!

[Verse 1]
Uh, I'm tryna learn something new
I'm tryna find myself, I'm searching deep for Kendrick Lamar
I read about Napoleon Hill and try to know God
They say he the key to my blessings, and if I speak the good
Into existence, that instant my dreams will unlock
Money flow like water, I'll just wait at the dock
And by the way I'ma start, finding more light to shed
Like a small garage in your backyard
I'm back chilling with a friend of mine, she mighty fine
But I notice that her heart resides next to bitterness
Always hollering who she don't like and who she kick it with
Who she wanna fight, who wearing a weave
Who Dooney and Bourke bag is fake, who holding the keys
To the car she drove last year or who fucking on who
And who need a pap smear, getting on my nerves
But before your negative energy curve, bitch I'ma cut you off
You might also like[Chorus 1]
'Cause every time you come around
You be hollering that whoop-de-whoop, blah-zay-blah
He say, she say, oh my God
Shut the fuck up... hoe
Every time you come around
You be hollering that whoop-de-whoop, blah-zay-blah
He say, she say

[Verse 2]
Uh, I'm tryna learn something new
I'm tryna surround myself with people that inspire me
Or at least inquire similar desires
To do what it T-A-K-E just to reach the T-O-P
I'm talking ideas, motivation
It's more than making, enemies, my nigga
Oh, that's not ya memo? Then tell me why you constant stressing
On how you well connected like centipedes, my nigga
I function with you and you flaunt your pistol
Every second tell me how you pressed 'em at the Monte Cristo
Where so and so from, and what neighborhoods beefing
Who baby momma's a rat, and who got killed last weekend
That shit is mad depressing, bringing me down
Speak on somethin' with some substance that can get us both paid
Rather than telling me how these niggas jocking your style
Or his rims ain't bigger, pussy nigga, I'ma cut you off
[Chorus 2]
'Cause every time you come around
You be hollering that whoop-de-whoop, blah-zay-blah
He say, she say, oh my God
Shut the fuck up... scary ass
Every time you come around
You be hollering that whoop-de-whoop, blah-zay-blah
He say, she say

[Verse 3]
Uh, I'm tryna learn something new
I'm tryna better my chances of becoming a star
I'm tryna feel the vibe of Mona Lisa
Studying art... now paint that picture
Life behind bars, remember the very day I got caught?
I murdered a rapper, and you filed the police report?
See what I was taught, family is all I need
But indeed them too can run me right up a tree
Constantly talking shit 'bout the next relative
Wanting me to take sides, but I'd never give in
Ever since grandma died, everyone parted ways
Argue on holidays, left my uncle in prison
For 15 years, no one paid him attention but moms
Yeah, my momma as loyal as any sister would come
Come to my house just to yap about your own people
Dang, and if your blood wasn't running through my veins
I would prolly cut y'all off too, yep
[Chorus 3]
'Cause everytime y'all come around
Y'all be hollering that whoop-de-whoop, blah-zay-blah
He say, she say, oh my God, shut the fuck up
Keep it running, Ali
Every time you come around
You be hollering that whoop-de-whoop, blah-zay-blah
He say, she say

[Outro]
So tell 'em, "Shut the fuck up!"
Tell 'em, "Shut the fuck up!"
Yeah, bitch, you boo-boo, you T'd
You turnt down, you thirsty
Tell 'em "Shut the fuck up!"
Tell 'em "Shut the fuck up!"
Yeah, nigga, you boo-boo, you T'd
You turnt down, you thirsty
You thirsty, you boo-boo
You T, you turnt down
You boo-boo, you T'd
You boo-boo, you turnt down
You thirsty, you T'd
You boo-boo, you turnt down
You boo-boo, you T'd
You turnt down, you weak
You weak, yo’ bitch weak
Yo- (laughs)
You boo-boo, you T (laughs)
Keep all that

[Interlude]
What is HiiiPoWeR?
HiiiPoWeR is the way we think, the way we live
See it’s known today that the human race is nothing
No morals, no standards
What we’re about to do is raise the level of expectations
No, you don’t have to have a lot of money
You don’t have to be rich
But you will be rich in mind and spirit
Some say it’s as big as a crew, some say it’s as big as a gang
HiiiPoWeR, we stand for it as if it’s as big as a religion76Embed

Title: Poe Mans Dreams (His Vice)
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-poe-mans-dreams-his-vice-lyrics
Song Description: The title, Poe Mans Dreams, is a play on the southern pronunciation of poor, but also alludes to the classic American writer Edgar Allan Poe. Poes cause of death in 1849 was inconclusive, but many historians suspect he died of symptoms related to alcohol poisoning. In this sense, he gave in to his vice, which led to his early demise.

Edgar Allan Poe was famous for moving away from romanticism in his work. Instead, he constructed concepts based on realistic or sometimes horrific situations that many literary analysts believe reflected his life. Kendrick Lamar and GLC do the same thing here, rapping about real-life situations.

Kendrick touches on such themes as giving in to peer pressure or bad habits. This track also sounds similar to Kanye Wests February 2004 track, Spaceship, which appears on his first album, The College Dropoutanother song which features GLC.
Lyrics:

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I used to want to see the penitentiary way after elementary
Thought it was cool to look the judge in the face when he sentenced me
Since my uncles was institutionalized
My intuition had said I was suited for family ties
My mama is stressin', my daddy tired
I need me a weapon, these niggas ride
Every minute, hour, and second, ministers tried to save me
How I'm gon' listen when I don't even hear God?
Heaven or hell, base it all on my instincts
My hands dirty, you worried 'bout mud in your sink
You like to mistake a street nigga for real nigga
The same nigga that kill with you'll squeal with you
I deal with you like my son, stare at the sun
And you'll be looking in my eyes, homie
Stand for something or fall for anything
And you working with two left feet at the skating rink
But anyway, this for my niggas
Uncles, twenty-three hours, sendin' me pictures
I want you to know that I'm so determined to blow
That you hear the music I wrote, hope it get you off death row
You came home to a pocket full of stones
A Metro PC phone, then you went back in
So when I touch the pen, the pen is in my view
I'ma get it right, just so you
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good

[Refrain: GLC]
And I do this for the city
Got some Hennessy and my real niggas with me
Fuck the police, they gon' have to come and get me
If it feel good to you, holler if you hear me

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
You like to mistake a street nigga for real nigga
The same nigga that kill with you'll squeal with you
I like to start it out from the bottom and build with you
Be on my last dollar and split the bill with you
I'm twenty-three with morals and plans of living cordial
Not rich, but wealthy, there's nothing you can tell me
My killings are not remorseful
The city got my back, and for that, I give them my torso
You think about it and don't call me lyrical
'Cause really I'm just a nigga that's evil and spiritual
I know some rappers using big words to make they similes curve
My simplest shit be more pivotal
I penetrate the hearts of good kids and criminals
Worrisome individuals that live life critical
So won't you bear witness while I bare feet?
So you can walk in my shoes and get to know me
But anyway, this for my pops
On his lunch break eating in that parking lot
On "Wanna Be Heard," probably thought he worked my nerves
But really he was stressing me gettin' what I deserve
Somebody said my name on the radio
He ain't know I was ready for the world that minute
So the next time he roll up and drop grams in it
He probably be out of work, laid back, while he
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good

[Refrain: GLC]
And I do this for the city
Got some Hennessy and my real niggas with me
Fuck the police, they gon' have to come and get me
If it feel good to you, holler if you hear me

[Outro: GLC]
Church is definitely on the move and now we done took it up to the cathedral
'Cause the ism is enormous, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
We out here rotating under the five P's
Proper preparation prevents poor performance, You know what I'm talking 'bout?
Doing my thing 'cause I'm rotating with my speakers thumping
From the Windy City streets all the way out here to the streets of Compton
Know what I'm talking 'bout?
Church is definitely on the move and we gon' continue to hustle and grow and develop by far
As I rotate with my true player partner by the name of Kendrick Lamar, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
This is the ism, this is the vision, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
Gotta get up off your ass and get it, man
That's the only way your pockets gon' expand
I tell you everyday, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
Apply yourself to supply your wealth
Only limitations you'll ever have are those that you place upon yourself
Church is definitely on the move, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
Exercise your ism, and don't depend on no one else
Cathedral, church, ism72Embed

Title: Opposites Attract (Tomorrow W/O Her)
Release Date: September 14, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-opposites-attract-tomorrow-w-o-her-lyrics
Song Description: Opposites Attract (Tomorrow W/O Her) is about the psychology of infidelity. It is told from both the man and the womans perspective.

The song contains a sample of Go Stetsa, a 1986 track by Stetsasonic. Kendrick would use this sample again on his next project, 2011s Section.80, on the track Poe Mans Dreams.

It also features a clip from She Says She Loves Me by Lamont Carey, during the outro. The poem is about marital abuse, which ties into the last lines of the second verse.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=toceWMAZNNg
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Uh, yeah, uh, yeah
Uh, yeah, uh
We hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people
I'm inspired, so get inspired

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
And so he said "Why you gotta be so kind-hearted?
Why you couldn't be a con artist? Why you couldn't?
Why you couldn't be mischievous or just a lil' devious
The moment that we first started?
Why you never ask for nothing, just a lil' time?
Why you let me use yours 'cause I don't got mines?
Why you always lift me up, when I'm completely giving up
And when niggas holla, "What's up?" you give a dry response?
Why you giving me your last knowing you ain't got it?
Why you always buy me something when you going shopping?
Why you tell me that you love me?
Why you always thinking of me?
Want my company rather than going club hopping?
Why you treating my momma like she your momma too?
Why you making promises that you'll forever do?
Whatever just to make me happy, wanting us to have a family
These are exactly the reasons why I cheat on you" (Sometimes)
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
We hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us

[Bridge: JaVonté]
Sometimes I, sometimes I feel we share
Nothing in common, it ain't fair
But where do we seem to fall
Where do we seem to fall
Tender love and care, once upon a time
Once upon a time, we was there

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
And so she said "Why you gotta be so mean to me?
Why you don't know what you mean to me?
Why you always playing games? Why I feel like you ashamed
Out in public curse me out and make a scenery?
Why you got other bitches rolling their eyes at me?
Why text messages popping up saying, "Hi, Daddy"?
Why you treat me like I'm nothing? Why you always at a function?
I be wanting to go out but you don’t ever ask me
Why you slip and say her name when we having sex?
Why you always assuming that I still like my ex?
Every time we get into it, I'm the one that's feeling stupid
You don't need me, you gon' leave me, that's ya favorite threat
Why you never know how it feel to be lonely?
Why I feel I'm the last option after ya homies?
Why you always gotta know that I will never let you go
Even though you get violent and put your hands on me?"
Sometimes
[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
We hurt people that love us, love people that
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us

[Bridge: JaVonté]
Sometimes I, sometimes I feel we share
Nothing in common, it ain't fair
But where do we seem to fall
Where do we seem to fall
Tender love and care, once upon a time
Once upon a time, we was there

[Outro: Lamont Carey]
She says she loves me
She says she loves me
So she clings to me, even when I want to be left alone
But she's beautiful
Like, sometimes, when I have things on my mind, she's the perfect person to listen
And she only gives advice, she says, when I give her a cue
She says she loves me
Like when I wake up in the morning, she's sitting on the edge of the bed with a plate of food, wanting to feed me
She says she needs me
She says she loves me
Or like when I'm stepping out of the shower, she's standing there with the towel, wanting to, wanting to dry me off
She says, she says she loves me
So instead of admitting that she has made another mistake
She says she loves me... and I don't know about love91Embed

Title: The Jig Is Up (Dump’n)
Release Date: October 20, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-the-jig-is-up-dumpn-lyrics
Song Description: J. Cole and Kendrick are at it again, with the former and Canei Finch on the beat and Ali on the mix. They be dump'n out the roof! Do-do-do-do-do!

https://twitter.com/kendricklamar/status/263359281955495937
Lyrics:

[Intro]
Praise to the almighty, HiiiPower
Me and my niggas (Live forever)
3 eyes to my alumni
Feel this
I wanna hear it, turn me up (My niggas on point, game tight)
Turn me up a little bit more nigga (My niggas on point, game tight)
My nigga Cole in this motherfucker. Wassup nigga?
(My niggas on point, game tight)
There we go yeah, turn me up

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Picture plenty pussies throwing pellet guns at me
Paranoia make it more than difficult for me to sleep
Pinnacle, I know I be, centerfold, I know I got
But they hate to frame me as the Mona Lisa of hip-hop
So retaliation is a must, when we bend the block
My niggas dump'n out the roof, (Do-do-do-do-do)
Drive past, guns blast, shooting up the charts too
Uh, me K-D-O-T, put TNT inside my suit
Walk inside the label, struck a match, and then I blew, bomb
C4 everywhere, C4 everywhere
I got three whores with me, it smells like Dior and derrière
Decoys die slow, you can detour to Heaven's stairs
Or walk inside Hell's dungeon, I just might derail something
They pussies, I smell something
You douche on the daily, niggas, you pushin' up daisy
I push the gas on Mercedes, nigga
Came in this game with a Rolie chain, and a dream
Became reality, made some casualties, my choppers scream
You might also like[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
And now we dump'n out the roof, (Do-do-do-do-do)
Drive past, guns blast, shooting up the charts too
Uh, me K-D-O-T, put T-N-T inside my suit
Uh, walk inside the label, struck a match and then I blew
And now we dump'n out the roof, (Do-do-do-do-do)
Drive past, guns blast, shooting up the charts too
Uh, me K-D-O-T, put T-N-T inside my suit
Uh, walk inside the label, struck a match and then I blew

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Nigga that thought Good Kid gon' flop, or that I might go pop
Or your bitch won't drop, knees when my shit drop
Y'all too infatuated with the fucking numbers
Which make it easy for me to divide and conquer
I come from Compton, we ain't have it all
Smokers basing inside the cafeteria hall
And I'm putting fear in you all, see your skeletons shaking
Jump out your body, you Ricky Bobby until you naked
Y'all pray to God this week I be putting out bombs
I pray to God this beat is good enough for Shyne
If not, J. Cole, your shit is trash
But at least my opinion just made everyone laugh
This is where we at? I guess it's entertainment
I guess this is speculation making a classic came with
If I ain't have the patience I'd probably self destruct
Real people want real music, the jig is up
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar & J. Cole]
Your worst fear is confirmed
We love that you crashed and burned
The real is back
K. Dot it's your turn, take your victory lap
King Cole salutin' Compton's own King Kendrick
Thats the sky is falling, the wind is calling
Stand for something or die in the morning
The city hail King Kendrick Lamar
The world hail King Kendrick Lamar

[Chorus: Kendrick Lamar]
And now we dump'n out the roof, (Do-do-do-do-do)
Drive past, guns blast, shooting up the charts too
Uh, me K-D-O-T, put T-N-T inside my suit
Uh, walk inside the label, struck a match and then I blew
And now we dump'n out the roof, (Do-do-do-do-do)
Drive past, guns blast, shooting up the charts too
Uh, me K-D-O-T, put T-N-T inside my suit
Uh, walk inside the label, struck a match and then I blew

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
This is my life and I look at it like its my last
And I'm lookin' right past the future as I reminisce on my past
And I don't even think how I used to, my mind is on rocket blast
And I don't even drink like I used too, and I don't even smoke
So you know this natural flow is for users that want to go to rehab
Lookin' at the coke that he had, matter fact that followers bother them
Then but I won't say my bad, see I just lay in the cut
Watch the product stack up, motherfucker what what
See now we dump'n out the roof108Embed

Title: Now or Never
Release Date: October 22, 2012, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-now-or-never-lyrics
Song Description: This is the 15th track on the deluxe edition of good kid, m.A.A.d city. Kendrick Lamar feels proud of all that he has achieved, including wealth and fame and people screaming his name at concerts. He reflects on how none of that would exist without putting in hard work.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Jack Splash]
[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
We on?
Aight
1,2,3, go!

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Waking up in a dream
Sleepwalking on another big stage
You never heard peace 'til you hear people scream
Your name in unison, I'm so far away
From the place I used to be, struggling usually
Look at the newer me, fate pursuing me
I can feel the energy in the air
It feel like I'm supposed to be here

[Bridge: Mary J. Blige]
Everywhere I go I'm getting so much love
Fans, the stars, everyone
Sayin how they can't wait for the LP
And I'm gonna blow
They believe in me
Feel so good in what you do
Helps somebody else get through
That's why I do the best I can
Because I know how blessed I am
You might also like[Chorus: Mary J. Blige]
I'm so high I can touch the sky
I know it's my time
And it's now or never
I shine so bright I light the night
And it feels so right, ain't nothing better

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
A fool if I take it all for granted
A smart man if I keep my feet planted
To the earth 'cause the people that hurt can understand it
You speakin' outlandish
I'mma show you how to make it all work
Another planet, it's a short term goal for me
A record sold for me
It's just more of me in your ear
For you to hear Kendrick persevere
Defenses I feel relentless
Ambition with a clear vision
Takin' off I ain't takin off these Pistons
I'm takin' off on the inner me - you're distance
Came across me, how much it'a cost me
To get you out my business
I said a planet is a short term goal, no sky is the limit
I'm past that, now pass that
Award, not one but four
Times two plus yours
[Bridge: Mary J. Blige]
I see myself performing there, (K.dot)
Sold out shows where the room is packed
Sitting at the Grammy's winning five awards
See myself on big billboards
Traveling around the world with endorsement deals
Can't imagine how it feels
That's why I'm smiling everyday
Because my dream ain't far away

[Chorus: Mary J. Blige]
I'm so high I can touch the sky
I know it's my time
And it's now or never
I shine so bright I light the night
And it feels so right, ain't nothing better

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
You looking at me and you tell me I'm blessed
Calculated my steps, my heart, my breath
Breathe in lungs of a victory and vividly
You see me when at my best, my worst
This verse dedicated to the days that I slept
With a curse research my paid dues I'm reimbursed
I burst in the crowd with a voice and a crown
I'm a King on the prowl and I see mama smile?
And I vow on the tape that I'll never break
You can break bread with me now
We can all take a bow on the edge of the pedestal
Then scream out loud that we made it off the avenue
And walked that mile
In the darkness I often sit back
And get lost in the rap that I wrote
When you told me that it spoke to your soul
I was talking to you
I was walking it through every ghetto
Tell success hello
We here
[Bridge: Mary J. Blige]
And I'm so happy I cry
Cause I can't believe
All the things I ever wanted
Are finally happening for me
And it's so surreal
That I almost feel
That any minute I can wake up
From this fantasy
When you pray so hard
And you've come so far
And you know that it's the time for you to lift your bar
And I'm gonna do it
Watch me!

[Chorus: Mary J. Blige]
I'm so high I can touch the sky
I know it's my time
And it's now or never
I shine so bright I light the night
And it feels so right, ain't nothing better
I'm so high I can touch the sky
I know it's my time
And it's now or never
I shine so bright I light the night
And it feels so right, ain't nothing better76Embed

Title: Ignorance is Bliss
Release Date: September 14, 2010, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-ignorance-is-bliss-lyrics
Song Description: The eighth track on Kendricks first full-length mixtape, Overly Dedicated, is titled after a popular idiom which translates to what you dont know cant hurt you. Kendrick raps the first verse without taking a single breath. This has become something of a habit for Kendrick as he repeated this feat on 2010s Look Out For Detox and 2011s Rigamortus.

According to a 2012 HipHopDX article, this is the first track that sparked Dr. Dres interest in working with Kendrick.
Lyrics:

[Produced by Willie B]

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
Lord forgive me

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Kill him where he stand and stand over him, shake his hand
Then jump back in that minivan, double back to his block and blam
I ain't backing down for nothing, I'ma back 'em down like Shaq
With this black 2-2-3 in my hand, better pray that this chopper jam
Like a radio single, man, Police radio signals saying
That a 187 land on your corner, coroners comfort your momma
"Momma, he's dead," the next morning, I toasted up with my homies
We drink and smoke marijuana, want us to change our ways? Uh-huh
You see this game we play come from, uncles that raised me in Compton
Ask me what I have accomplished, I don't know, I don't have conscience
I just load up and start dumping on enemies I'm headhunting
No sympathy, ain't no love, when you in these streets, just get something
Protect your neck 'cause they coming for set respect, split your onion
Then chop your deck, your head tumbling like gymnastics (Ooh...)
'Cause ignorance is bliss

[Chorus: ScHoolboy Q]
Now everybody put your hands up high
If you don't give a fuck, put your hands up high
You might also like[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
This the hardest shit you've heard from LA this far
And I'm this far from a discharge, but never will I diss y'all
We all tryna ball, and when I got the rock, I'll dish off
Until the day I pistol-whip you posers 'til y'all pissed off
Then peel off in a hoopty
Come back and make these niggas wanna shoot me

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
And they bitches wanna salute me or seduce me
Indubitably, I'm too street—indubitably, I'ma do me
Better than your bitch would, 'cause you niggas too weak
But just give me two weeks and I'm good
I'll make an album that'll put a smile on Malcolm
Make Martin Luther tell God I'm the future for Heaven's talent
No tarot card reading; I'm foreseeing you niggas vanish
Not only from the rap game—I'm including the planet
Cats so watered-down, clowns can sink Titanic
Tie titanium around they neck and watch 'em panic
Give me respect, dammit, or get damaged
Die young, corpse identified by your parents
Apparently, you a parrot, mocking me and my blueprint
But I won't share it, just make you cop it, then call you a sheriff
Stop it, I'm hearin' the comments
The critics are calling me conscious
But truthfully, every shooter be calling me Compton
So truthfully, only calling me Kweli and Common?
Proves... that ignorance is bliss
[Chorus: ScHoolboy Q]
Now everybody put your hands up high
If you don't give a fuck, put your hands up high

[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
And this still the hardest shit you've heard from LA this far
And I'm this far, from a discharge, but never will I diss y'all
This my world, I grab the universe then play kickball
And they wonder why these California earthquakes hittin' so hard

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
I'm So-Cal, you so-called rappers need to go call Ghostbusters
'Cause you busters are Casper when I go off
I show up to show out and show off
You a hundred percent behind me
And if you are, then wreck your car
Then walk up to my crime scene
I remember bein' seventeen, wishin' someone would sign me
Now the only way these labels get me back is when they rewind me
Backin' down bargains, backin' down bitches
We gon' flip her
Once she off that blue dolphin, you gon' tip her
'Cause ignorance is bliss

[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
And Willie B, I'm a fool on your beats
I bleed out the speaker as the speaker that spoke when they didn't speak85Embed

Title: No Make-Up (Her Vice)
Release Date: July 2, 2011, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-no-make-up-her-vice-lyrics
Song Description: Kendrick doesnt think girls need make-up to look sexy  just a brain
The first of three songs dedicated to a prostitute named Keisha that Kendrick sympathizes with. Followed by Keishas Song and verse two of Sing About Me, Im Dying of Thirst





The reliance on makeup shown also serves as a parallel to other substances that are constantly abused like alcohol and drugs. The makeup represents how people cover themselves up instead of facing the real world similarly to how people will attempt to drink away their pain instead of facing things head on. Kendrick shows this through the bridge:

Ladies and gentlemen
And you aint gotta get drunk to have fun
You aint gotta get drunk to have fun
You aint gotta get drunk to have fun
Lyrics:

[Produced by Sounwave]

[Chorus: Colin Munroe]
I love the way you put it on your eyes
The roses on your face light up the sky
Those lips are colorful all of the time
And girl, that's fine, but I wanna know, do you mind?
No makeup today, no makeup today, today
No makeup today, no makeup today
And girl, that's fine, but I wanna know, do you mind?

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
I know she 'bout to ask me how she look
I tell her beautiful and how long it took
For you to put it on, it was early in the morn'
She resembled a model out of a MAC book
Concentrating on the way the eyeliner thickens
I stand behind her and try to figure her vision
Of prettiness, the wittiness of colors on her skin tone
Her complexion in a direction I've outgrown
Damn girl, why so much?
You 'bout to blow your cover when you cover up
Don't you know your imperfections is a wonderful blessing?
From Heaven is where you got it from
I love your smile, you can do it without style
From your lips all the way to your eyebrows
It's the beauty in her, but when the makeup occur
I don't see it, all I see is a blur
You might also like[Chorus: Colin Munroe]
I love the way you put it on your eyes
The roses on your face light up the sky
Those lips are colorful all of the time
And girl, that's fine, but I wanna know, do you mind?
No makeup today, no makeup today, today
No makeup today, no makeup today
And girl, that's fine, but I wanna know, do you mind?

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar & Alori Joh]
I know she 'bout to ask me how she look
I tell her beautiful and how long it took
For you to put it on, it was early in the morn'
She resembled a model out of a MAC book
Concentrating on the way my eyeliner thickens
He stand behind me and try to figure her vision
Of prettiness, the wittiness of colors on my skin tone
My complexion in a direction I've outgrown
I feel like it's not enough
I can never put on too much makeup
Yeah, I know your imperfections, I be constantly stressing
From him is where I get it from, they tell me I need to
Smile at least once in a while
I hate my lips, my nose, my eyebrows
It's the beauty in me, but what he don't see
Is that I had a black eye— to be continued, eleven
[Bridge: Kendrick Lamar]
Ladies and gentlemen
And you ain't gotta get drunk to have fun
You ain't gotta get drunk to have fun
And you ain't gotta get drunk to have fun
You ain't gotta get drunk to have fun

[Chorus: Colin Munroe]
I love the way you put it on your eyes
The roses on your face light up the sky
Those lips are colorful all of the time
And girl, that's fine, but I wanna know, do you mind?
No makeup today, no makeup today, today
No makeup today, no makeup today
And girl, that's fine, but I wanna know, do you mind?

Title: ​untitled 01 | 08.19.2014.
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-01-08192014-lyrics
Song Description: This song is a warning to humanity. Kendrick highlights the destructive nature of mankind, warning us that if we continue to sin, Revelations, specifically Judgement Day (the apocalypse), will be upon us soon.

This first track on untitled unmastered. directly connects to the final song Mortal Man on his previous album To Pimp A Butterfly. Mortal Man features a posthumous interview with Tupac wherein Kendrick asks Pac to explain the metaphor of the ground, to which he replies:

2pac: The ground is gonna open up and swallow the evil. Thats how I see it, my word is bond. I see and the ground is the symbol for the poor people; the poor people is gonna open up this whole world and swallow up the rich people.

This entire song is a vivid dramatization of  2Pacs Marxist metaphor, depicting the ground cracking open and swallowing the rich sinners above, in a graphic biblical style. Kendrick attempts to prove all the love and dedication hes demonstrated towards God, despite gaining wealth and power.  The track is Kendricks plea of repentance, so he may be spared from this terrifying fate.

Kendrick has been signalling the end of times since a 2012 collaboration with Big Sean on 100. More recently, in an interview with Billboard, Kendrick also shared that he believes that the Biblical Last Days are near, this belief of Kendricks is clearly noticeable in this song.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Bilal]
Come here, girl
Oh, you want me to touch you right there?
Oh, like a little lamb, play in your hair
Oh, you want it? Oh, you want it right now
Like that? I got you, baby
All on you, baby
Push it back on daddy
Push it back on daddy, baby

[Verse: Kendrick Lamar]
I seen it vividly, jogging my brain memory, life no—
I seen it vividly, jogging my brain memory
Life no longer infinity, this was the final calling
No birds chirping or flying, no dogs barking
We all nervous and crying, moving in caution
In disbeliefs our belief's the reason for all this
The tallest building plummet, cracking, and crumbling
The ground is shaking, swallowing young woman
With a baby, daisies, and other flowers burning in destruction
The smell is disgusting, the heat is unbearable
Preachers touching on boys, run for cover, the paranoid
Rapists and murderers hurdle alleys
Valleys and high places turn into dust
Famous screaming in agony
Atheists for suicide, planes falling out the sky
Trains jumping off the track, mothers yelling "He's alive!"
Backpedaling Christians settling for forgiveness
Evidence all around us the town is covered in fishes
Ocean water dried out, fire burning more tides out
Tabernacle and city capital turned inside out
Public bathroom, college classroom's been deserted
Another trumpet has sounded off and everyone heard it
(It's happening) No more running from world wars
(It's happening) No more discriminating the poor
(It's happening) No more bad bitches and real niggas
Wishing for green and gold, the last taste of allure
I swore I seen it vividly
A moniker of war from Heaven that play the symphony
Thunder like number four, then I heard
"What have you did for me?"
I fell to my knees, pulled out my resume
That dated back to June 17th, 1987
My paperwork was like a receipt
I was valedictorian, I was fearful of judgment
But confident I had glory in all my past endeavors
Close my eyes, pray to God that I live forever
Dark skies, fire and brimstone, some of us sent home
Some of us never did wrong but still went to Hell
Geez Louise, I thought you said that I excel
I made To Pimp a Butterfly for you
Told me to use my vocals to save mankind for you
Say I didn't try for you, say I didn't ride for you
I tithed for you, I pushed the club to the side for you
Who love you like I love you?
Crucifix, tell me you can fix anytime I need
Amistad, chain evidence in my diary
Never would you lie to me
Always camaraderie, I can see, our days been numbered
Revelation greatest as we hearing the last trumpet
All man, child, woman, life completely went in reverse
I guess I'm running in place trying to make it to church
You might also like[Outro]
Young nigga, act an ass
Young nigga, act a fool
Young nigga, get yo' cash
Young nigga, do what it do
Young nigga go, young nigga go
Young nigga go, young nigga go
Whatever makes all of you happy in this bitch
Just take it all back before the light switch64Embed

Title: gloria
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-and-sza-gloria-lyrics
Song Description: Gloria  is the 12th and final track on Kendrick Lamars 6th studio album, and for a 2nd time on the LP, features vocals from his long-time friend & collaborator, SZA. It marks the 6th collaboration between the two.

the woman Kendrick speaks of serves as an extended metaphor for his craft. Gloria, which means glory in spanish, becomes a personification of rap gloryhis pen and the artistic journey it represents. The relationship described symbolizes his intimate and often conflicted bond with his art, reflecting its power to uplift and consume him.

 Both SZA & Kendrick highlight the duality of loveits power to heal and harm.
Lyrics:

[Intro: Deyra Barrera]
Sentado, Anita y tú

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Me and my bitch got a complicated relationship
She's so controllin', I noticed it ain't no playin' with
I met her when I was off the porch as a teenager
She said one day I would right my wrongs and see paper
We started out young, lookin' for some identity, made a thousand mistakes
But never did we lack chemistry
Wrappin' my hand 'round your waist
That was back when you did whatever I say
Dreams of sellin' narcotics, runnin' blocks, or robbin' banks
I was in love with you, didn't know what it was with you
Kiss you in back of the class just to get a buzz with you
Some niggas wanted you, but they weren't committed
Preoccupied playin' John Madden and bullshittin'
Remember when granny died? You looked at me and said, "Baby, dry your eyes
Depend on me as your relief, let your anger be mine"
We was locked in ever since then
So territorial, even took me 'way from my friends, hmm, hmm (Gah, gah, gah)

[Chorus: SZA]
Scared of forever, you know nothin' else is gon' pass
I just gotta let you know, woah
Whenever you want me, you got me 'til the end of time
Ooh, just gotta let you know
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
Said you gon' see other people if I didn't grow with you
Wasn't no more holdin' them pistols in front of stores with you
You want reality, not tragedy, for sure, I get you
To tell the truth, I been pretty used to what open-minded people do
In 2014, I went to Africa, baby, you was my passenger
My eyes and ears for all the years the neighborhood had baffled us
Of course I had to wrap it up, I didn't fully trust you
Fabrication, I disgust you, then you blocked me, I said, "Fuck you"

[Interlude: SZA & Kendrick Lamar]
Nigga, what?
I gave you life, I breathe the motherfuckin' charisma in this bitch
I bring the blessings, I gave you power
Nigga, I bring the rainfall, I gave you hustle
Then fall right back in love the very moment that I touch you (Gah, gah, gah)

[Chorus: SZA]
Scared of forever, you know nothin' else is gon' pass
I just gotta let you know
Whenever you want me, you got me 'til the end of time
Ooh, just gotta let you know

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
You were spontaneous, firecracker, plus our love is dangerous
Life of passion, laughin' at you lose your temper, slightly crashin'
Dumb enough to ill reaction, ain't no disrespect
Highly sensitive, possessed, saw potential, even when it's tragic
So jealous, hate it when I hit the club to get some bitches
Wrote 'em off, rather see me hit the church and get religious
Who you foolin'? I know what you doin', you my contradiction
'Member when you caught that body and still wiggled through that sentence?
Loved you more, when you flip and lose your shit, I hugged you more
It's sexy to me, cuss they ass out and hold that grudge some more
Down bitch, I know your favorite movie, is it Notebook?
So good, if they all sub me, get 'em all booked
My baby boo, you either heal niggas or you kill niggas
Both is true, it take some tough skin just to deal with you
Logical explanation don't exist, flippin' pages
Chapter after chapter, probably remarry and head to Vegas
Bitches gettin' marked out, they can't erase our history
They margins ain't big enough, they all led by bigotry
My woman and my right hand, my saint and my sin
Ain't no bitch like my bitch 'cause that bitch been my pen
[Outro: SZA]
Gloria, I wanna take you to euphoria
Bitches want, but they ain't strong enough
I heard they talking, we notorious
If someone talking on me
I see you, you see me
Both see what we want, oh, oh
I see you, you see me
Both see what we want7Embed

Title: heart pt. 6
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-heart-pt-6-lyrics
Song Description: This is the sixth installment in Kendrick Lamars ongoing The Heart series. A staple of his career, each entry finds Kendrick waxing poetic about the state of his life at the time of its recording; usually in the lead-up to an album release.

Toward the end of Kendricks public beef with Drake earlier in 2024, Drake released THE HEART PART SIX, mocking Lamars series after Kendrick mocked Drakes own timestamp series with 6:16 In LA. Shortly thereafter, Drake would delete his Instagram post promoting this song. Along with the tone of the piece itself, many interpreted this move as Drake silently accepting defeat.



This track is Kendricks attempt at reclaiming his series. The formatting of The Heart series has always been The Heart Pt. __ while this track dropped the word The and has been stylized all in lowercase letters, this mightve been done to avoid any confusion with Drakes version.

Although some might expect Kendrick to address the rap battle on this track, he does not make any reference to the beef and commits to his original idea for the series: expressing his thoughts on the culture at large as well as his personal life. In this case, he focuses on his early years in the industry and his eventual departure from Top Dawg Entertainment and Black Hippy.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1: Kendrick Lamar]
Load up the Pro Tools and press three
Studio filled with Jack In The Box and Pepsis
Niggas watchin' WorldStar videos, not the ESPYs
Laughin' at B. Pumper, stomach turnin', I get up and proceeded to write somethin'
Ab-Soul in the corner mumblin' raps, fumblin' packs of Black & Milds
Crumblin' kush 'til he cracked a smile
His words legendary, wishin' I could rhyme like him
Studied his style to define my pen
That was back when the only goal was to get Jay Rock through the door
Warner Brother Records, hope Naim Ali would let us know
Was excited just to go to them label meetings
Wasn't my record deal, but still, I couldn't beliеve it
Me and Rock inside thе booth hibernatin'
It was simple math, if he made it, that mean I made it
Everything I had was for the team, I remained patient
Grindin' with my brothers, it was us against them, no one above us, bless our hearts

[Chorus: SWV & Coko]
Use your heart and not your eyes (Baby, just relax and ride)
If you got time, then I got time (Yeah, yeah)
Free your thoughts and watch them fly
Use your heart and not your eyes (Mm-hmm)

[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
My nigga Dave had a champagne Acura
A bunch of instrumentals I freestyled in the passenger
That nigga wore several hats, a producer, a manager, director, and DJ
A hothead squabblin', Bloods, Pirus, and Keeways
For this little thing of ours we called TDE
I watched you take some penitentiary chances to say the least
Remember in the county building with MixedByAli
We tried to freak the system just to make a couple ends meet
That's my nigga for shit sure
He brought Q over, but Q didn't rap, but he learned from our inspo
We split Louisiana chicken riverboat specials
Sleepin' next to 02R consoles to be our refuge
He was homeless and I left home
Q said, "Dot, you won't be slept on, you the nigga to bet on" (Use your h—)
Top had given us dominion in the home he lived in
Hopin' that we see some millions, God bless our hearts
You might also like[Chorus: SWV & Coko]
Use your heart and not your eyes (Baby, just relax and ride)
If you got time, then I got time (Yeah, yeah)
Free your thoughts and watch them fly
Use your heart and not your eyes

[Verse 3: Kendrick Lamar]
Punch played Phil Jackson in my early practices
Strategies on how to be great amongst the averages
I picked his brain on what was ordained, highly collaborative
RET pushed the label the same, amongst the savages
Moose kept my name in the function that he would run in
TEEZ kept the vultures away from me that was comin'
Sounwave let me borrow his clothes for shows as a hype man
To cook up in this room 'til the night ends
Time flies, I'm carryin' debates of a top five
Buryin' my opps and allies
But I'd done a half job communicatin' feelings of being stagnant
Life was gettin' bigger than just rappin'
The business, what I was lackin'
Top used to record me back when it was poor me
And now we at the round table for what assures me
I guess my motivation was the yearnin' for independence
Poured everything I had left in the family business
Now it's about Kendrick, I wanna evolve, place my skillset as a Black exec'
I jog my memory, knowin' Black Hippy didn't work 'cause of me
Creatively, I moved on with new concepts in reach
Top, remember all them sessions we would strategize
To hit the streets, then come back, record three records? Ah
To tell the truth, it fucked me up when D-Man passed
The motive was the condolences, but the pride crashed
I had to bypass old mythologies I had
Put my heart on display like it was an iMac
To all my young niggas, let me be the demonstration
How to conduct differences with a healthy conversation
If that's your family, then handle it as such
Don't let the socials gas you up or let emotions be your crutch
Pick up the phone and bust it up before the history is lost
Hand-to-handshake is good when you have a heart-to-heart
[Chorus: SWV & Coko]
Use your heart and not your eyes (Baby, just relax your mind)
If you got time and I got time (Yeah, yeah)
Free your thoughts and watch them fly
Use your heart and not your eyes (Mm-hmm)

Title: ​untitled 08 | 09.06.2014.
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-08-09062014-lyrics
Song Description: On untitled 08 | 09.06.2014., Kendrick laments the financial difficulties faced by black Americans, and contextualizes his success in spite of it.

This track further establishes Lamars fervent distaste for Institutional racism, which is thematically highlighted throughout To Pimp a Butterfly. These lyrics clearly illustrate his position: if you want your life to be better, you need to make it happen for yourself. After all, the chorus for Institutionalized is:




Shit dont change until you get up and wash yo' ass, nigga Shit dont change until you get up and wash yo' ass, boy Shit dont change until you get up and wash yo' ass, nigga Oh now, slow down KendrickLamar (Ft.AnnaWise, Bilal & SnoopDogg)  Institutionalized




The closing track from Kendricks untitled unmastered., a version with a different ending was performed as Untitled 2 on the January 7, 2016 episode of The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b6IAQUsmbfM

https://twitter.com/kendricklamar/status/706672660063727616
https://twitter.com/KingJames/status/705614724680044546
Lyrics:

[Chorus]
Why so sad?
Walking around with them blue faces
She said I’m down on my luck
And it’s something I gotta have
Blue faces
I hit the bank today and told them color me bad
Blue faces
Get that new money, and it’s breaking me down honey
[Verse 1]
Two tears in the bucket I cry with you, uh
But I could never lie with you
I could never afford not to afford
I could never put my plans to the side with you
I could never see a red light
Like a deer with a headlight
I freeze up when I re-up
See I barely have patience
And you're relating
Only the moment to complete us
Why you hate to work for it?
The reason I never went to work for it
See a nine to five was so jive turkey
But when Thanksgiving came that check didn’t hurt me
You plead the fifth
I read the Fifth Amendment
We both criminals with bad intentions
They say time heals all
But if I can shortcut
My success, Corvettes by tomorrow
Wait a minute!
You might also like[Chorus]
Now, why you so sad?
Walking around with them blue faces
She said I’m down on my luck
And it’s something I gotta have
Blue faces
I hit the bank today and told them color me bad
Blue faces
Get that new money, and it’s breaking me down honey

[Verse 2]
My home girl got a credit card scam
She got a scholarship to college but she don’t give a damn
Intuition got a broke bitch wishin'
She tell me this on the phone with the noodles in the pan
I know you, woman, I console you, woman
You feel like the universe owes you, woman
Oh the anticipation, of hoping you could make it
Bitches don't prosper chasing education
But you're talented, and can't handle it
And your homegirls can't be your manager
365 times four, plus more
If you can't get it right, tell me, do you got the stamina?
But shit, ain't no money like fast money
Even today I'm considered a crash dummy
A rapper chasing stardom, how can I fast forward?
My accolades better than all them
[Chorus]
Why you so sad?
Walking around with them blue faces
She said I’m down on my luck
And it’s something I gotta have
Blue faces
I hit the bank today and told them color me bad
Blue faces
Get that new money, and it’s breaking me down honey

[Verse 3]
I wrote this song looking at a broke home baby (Broke home baby)
You know the poverty stricken the little broke born babies (Broke born babies)
Somebody yell "Kendrick American, they sho’ is crazy"
And I said “why?”
Then he looked me in the eye, and said "nigga you fucked up"
You’re banking on good luck, you wishing for miracles
You never been through shit, you’re crying hysterical
You settle for everything, complain about everything
You say you sold crack, my world amphetamine
Your projects ain’t shit, I live in a hut bitch
I'm living to keep warm, you living to pay rent
I prayed my way through by waiting on Allah
You played your way through, by living in sci-fi
Bullshitting yourself, you talking to strangers
Same thing goes for the ones you came with
When y'all came on the boat looking for hope
And all you can say is that you’re looking for dope
These days ain’t no compromise
And your pain ain’t mines half the time
A brand new excuse ain’t shit to me
Bitch, I made my moves, with shackled feet
Cape Town
[Interlude]
In today's day and age we practice the self pity of taking the easy way out
You wait on them, him and her
But when a blessing takes too long, that's when you go wrong
You selfish motherfucker

[Chorus]
Why so sad?
Walking around with them blue faces
She said I’m down on my luck
And it’s something I gotta have
Blue faces
I hit the bank today and told them color me bad
Blue faces
Get that new money, and it’s breaking me down honey
[Outro]
Pimp-pimp (Hooray!)

Title: Prayer
Release Date: August 18, 2020, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-prayer-lyrics
Song Description: On Prayer, Kendrick Lamar reflects over the voices of art and personifies a song by Michael Jackson and a speech by Martin Luther King, Jr., respectively. In each of the first two verses, Lamar mentions two dates that relate to the lives of each manThe Jackson 5s ABC released on February 24, 1970, and MLK delivered his I Have A Dream speech on August 28, 1963.

Kendrick uses every verse to explore how the media is quick to dismiss an artists contributions to society due to their personal shortcomingshe specifically delves into Jacksons pedophilia accusations and Kings marital infidelity. In the final verse, Kendrick establishes that artists bring meaning to the world regardless of their individual imperfections.

The song was recorded sometime in 2018 and was leaked in its entirety on August 18, 2020, along with Gotta Love Me and Somebody.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
I was born on February 24th, 1970
The day I was delivered, they said I would build a legacy
Picture me with influence that last generations
I was made out of love to keep you happy and educated
The first three letters of the alphabet, my name
I made you laugh, I made you dance, I made you sing
I been around the world and back, you recorded my almanac
So dearly way before the fact me and pops was estranged
My father was a public figure, bigger than life
Lived as a winner, on stages alike
Rivers of people surely united, just to see our bond
Time carried on, that was a common thread
My perfect father had many flaws
Still they moved they legs and shook they heads in unison
He had more children, I was the oldest
We always played with each other 'fore they ruined 'em
He told me his personal secrets, childhood catching on beatings
Sexually touched and abused, never seen life in a school
The price of being iconic was demonic and screwed
I stood on stage and had to watch my father on the news
Stress on the head of my spirit, I was lost and confused
I knew both sides of the story, but still, I couldn't choose
See, it was more than humiliation and bein' sued
They crucified my affiliation for points to prove
And now my purpose for livin' makes no difference to you
My total existence was for makin' a smiling move
They said that I'll live forever, but the moment he died
More accusations arrived, I had to die too
You might also like[Verse 2]
I remember takin' my first breath August 28th, 1963
The whole nation had saved the day, I made it on TV
My come out was a standing ova', the crowd in disbelief
How could a group of words be so great? Designed to make you think
Races and faces embracin' my conscience in letter form
How gracious was I speakin' on changes once outside the norm?
The person responsible, my creator
He never conformed or used hatred to form mass retaliation
Watch him perform with conviction
Two hundred and fifty thousand souls left they homes to listen
I gather his thoughts in abundance made to complete the mission
His life became heroic, then tables turned
My creator stripped from being a poet because he yearned
Other women, infidelity stricken, I can't say he was perfect
It made me nervous, they tear him down and forget me
I prayed that I survived in the midst of the controversy
How many lives will fall on deaf ears if I'm not worthy?
I won't justify his personal problems, that's not my job
I was only born to make sure your children can play outside
And I imagine the other demons, he hid before he died
If they came to surface, this dream probably won't be alive because of you
[Verse 3]
I was born in paranoia, it's poison for us
We can't create with joyous ambition, we're out of luck
The critics formed a new coalition and huddled up
The non-creators are now elated and out of touch
Why can't you gladly appreciate the influence we give?
Stop starin' at me disgusted, my substance made sure you'd lived
You want the head of the messenger and the history from him
Which eventually takes away from the good you accustom
Think of a life without the likes of imagination that's prosperin'
The bodies that you consider genius, you like to box 'em in
The great debaters and thinkers, they gave you a voice
Why can't you prosecute the crimes and not the thoughts I employ?
Because your better judgement will always look down on me
But if I recollect how we connect, you'll account on me
I got a theory that most of y'all won't allow to see
It goes like this, talent doesn't choose morality
See, if Daniel Hale was a killer, would you not want a heart?
If Carl Benz was a racist, would you stop driving cars?
I can't help we jump in these bodies and you called them a God
Just know the Earth is just a rock without the voices of art, sincerely yours16Embed

Title: ​untitled 06 | 06.30.2014.
Release Date: March 4, 2016, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-untitled-06-06302014-lyrics
Song Description: A song about embracing ones unique traits.

Written in the form of a plea to a lover, they purport talking about the character traits that come across as odd rather than see them stop what they could build towards.

The theme of the songconfidence in oneselfcontinues as Kendrick tells a potential lover that he finds her attractive and she need not change or hide any details that may be seen as embarrassing like her modest upbringing.

https://twitter.com/CeeLoGreen/status/705871071107543040
Lyrics:

[Intro: Kendrick Lamar]
These metamorphic supernatural forces dominate what I see
A Gemini, duality personalities always conflicted me

[Bridge 1: Kendrick Lamar &  CeeLo Green]
Oh! But don't be scared of me, girl
I can explain
I know it's foreign to you
I know it's hard to believe
God give me the favor
Let me explain
More than a compliment
And I could use some assistance, let me show you how
I can explain
Oh shando! I spin around two times
I'll be there with the answer
Let me explain

[Verse 1: CeeLo Green]
I'm bizarre, avant-garde
Both sides of me are evenly odd
It's attractive, you're intrigued
Am I mortal man or make-believe?
Anything you want to know (I can explain)
I can explain it
Any misunderstandings, baby (Let me explain)
I can explain it
Why don't you sit and talk to me a while? (I can explain)
Let me explain it, ahh yes (Let me explain)
You might also like[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
My mama told me that I was different the moment I was invented
Estranged baby, no I'm not ashamed
I recommend every inch of your lunatic ways
Praise the Lord, you teach the kids how to be themself and plenty more
You know the male species can be redundant
I mean we love a woman and think we can satisfy her
Between sheets, covers and pillows
I'm promising your lack of tolerance stuck on a zero
I'm promising that I'm acknowledging you as my hero
Cause you believe in me
No you're not easily impressed
But I possess qualities that you need to see
Look at my flaws, look at my flaws
Look at my imperfections in awe
Look how you unique that my mystique is a round of applause
And yours equally valued
You stick out like an alien compared to those around you
And that's alright because I like it
You and me are the same
Hopefully I'm invited, hopefully you don't change
Because I know for sure who you are

[Bridge 2: Kendrick Lamar & CeeLo Green]
I can explain
Your mama raised you, your daddy raised you
Hand-washing your clothes on Sunday
Let me explain
Walking your brother to school, three miles away
To feed the mind and soul
I can explain
Don't you explain that, don't you explain the reason why your mind, it travels
Let me explain
I wanna know what you think
I wanna pick your brain when I see you
But don't you ever
Let me explain
Oh shando! I spin around two times
A blessing in disguise
I can explain
I know for sure who you are
You're the goddess of the odd
I am yours
I can explain
[Outro: Kendrick Lamar]
I am yours
I am yours
I am yours
I am yours
Ndiseza ndingene laduma vumile
Ndiseza ndingene laduma vumile28Embed

Title: man at the garden
Release Date: November 22, 2024, URL: https://genius.com/Kendrick-lamar-man-at-the-garden-lyrics
Song Description: The title of the song man at the garden seems to refer to the story of a man who is listing the things he did to deserve to enter the garden, referring to the biblical paradise. Kendrick repeats I deserve it all several times after saying everything he did to deserve to be there.

Similarly, this song is a manifesto of Kendricks life philosophy: he deserves everything hes earned because of the sacrifices hes made, the principles hes upheld, and the struggles hes overcome. Its also a challenge to listeners to reflect on their own lives and consider what theyve done to claim their success or deserve it all.
Lyrics:

[Verse 1]
Twice emotional stability
Of sound body and tranquility
I deserve it all
Like minds and less enemies
Stock investments, more entities
I deserve it all
VVSs, white diamonds
GNX with the seat back, reclinin', bitch
I deserve it all
Put my homes on the beachfront
Flyin' private, what you eat for lunch?
I deserve it all
The respect and the accolades
Lampin' on the island, watchin' Cast Away
I deserve it all
For еvery good nigga that passed away
Sent two-point-fivе million on an average day
I deserve it all
Keep my name by the world leaders
Keep my crowds loud inside Ibiza
I deserve it all
More money, more power, more freedom
Everything Heaven allowed us, bitch
I deserve it all
You might also like[Chorus]
Hmm, I deserve it all
Hmm, I deserve it all
All
All

[Verse 2]
'Cause my intentions was pure
Even when you wasn't sure
Even with every allure
How much temptation you endured?
You'd probably look for every cure
I said I deserve it all
I'm wakin' up at 6 a.m.
Six miles a day, conditionin' my wind
I said I deserve it all
I'm showin' up as your friend
Tellin' truths better than your next of kin
I said I deserve it all
I never ask for too much credit
Seekin' validation just for the aesthetics, bitch
I deserve it all
I see you as a human first
Even when you didn't understand your worth
Bitch, I deserve it all
It's innate to mind my business
Writin' words, tryna elevate these children
That's why I deserve it all
Pray for those who prayed against me
Every reason why my ancestors sent me
Bitch, I deserve it all
[Chorus]
I deserve it all
I deserve it all
All
All

[Verse 3]
Put a smile on my mama
Good health and good karma
Yeah, she deserves it all
One hundred murals out in Compton
Remember me? I kept my promise
Yeah, we deserve it all
A better life for my daughter
Made my son take it further than his father
Yeah, he deserves it all
A close relationship with God
Whisper to me every time I close my eyes
He say, "You deserve it all"
Keep these bitch niggas away from me
Keep all my blessings faithfully
Keep my essence contagious, that's okay with me
I burn this bitch down, don't you play with me or stay with me
I'm crashin' out right now, no one's safe with me
I did it with integrity and niggas still try hate on me, just wait and see
More blood be spillin', it's just paint to me
Dangerously, nothin' changed with me, still got pain in me
Flip a coin, want the shameless me or the famous me?
How annoying, does it angers me to know the lames can speak
On the origins of the game I breathe? That's insane to me
It's important, I deserve it all because it's mine
Tell me why you think you deserve the greatest of all time, motherfucker
[Outro]
I deserve it all
I deserve it all12Embed
